Ubiquitous evaluation of layer potentials using Quadrature by  Kernel-Independent Expansion

  We introduce a quadrature scheme--QBKIX--for the high-order accurateevaluation of layer potentials associated with general elliptic PDEs near toand on the domain boundary. Relying solely on point evaluations of theunderlying kernel, our scheme is essentially PDE-independent; in particular, noanalytic expansion nor addition theorem is required. Moreover, it applies toboundary integrals with singular, weakly singular, and hypersingular kernels.  Our work builds upon Quadrature by Expansion (QBX), which approximates thepotential by an analytic expansion in the neighborhood of each expansioncenter. In contrast, we use a sum of fundamental solutions lying on a ringenclosing the neighborhood, and solve a small dense linear system for theircoefficients to match the potential on a smaller concentric ring.  We test the new method with Laplace, Helmholtz, Yukawa, Stokes, and Navier(elastostatic) kernels in two dimensions (2D) using adaptive, panel-basedboundary quadratures on smooth and corner domains. Advantages of the algorithminclude its relative simplicity of implementation, immediate extension to newkernels, dimension-independence (allowing simple generalization to 3D), andcompatibility with fast algorithms such as the kernel-independent FMM.

Contact-aware simulations of particulate Stokesian suspensions

  We present an efficient, accurate, and robust method for simulation of densesuspensions of deformable and rigid particles immersed in Stokesian fluid intwo dimensions. We use a well-established boundary integral formulation for theproblem as the foundation of our approach. This type of formulations, with ahigh-order spatial discretization and an implicit and adaptive timediscretization, have been shown to be able to handle complex interactionsbetween particles with high accuracy. Yet, for dense suspensions, very smalltime-steps or expensive implicit solves as well as a large number ofdiscretization points are required to avoid non-physical contact andintersections between particles, leading to infinite forces and numericalinstability.  Our method maintains the accuracy of previous methods at a significantlylower cost for dense suspensions. The key idea is to ensure interference-freeconfiguration by introducing explicit contact constraints into the system.While such constraints are unnecessary in the formulation, in the discrete formof the problem, they make it possible to eliminate catastrophic loss ofaccuracy by preventing contact explicitly.  Introducing contact constraints results in a significant increase in stabletime-step size for explicit time-stepping, and a reduction in the number ofpoints adequate for stability.

A fast platform for simulating flexible fiber suspensions applied to  cell mechanics

  We present a novel platform for the large-scale simulation of fibrousstructures immersed in a Stokesian fluid and evolving under confinement or infree-space. One of the main motivations for this work is to study the dynamicsof fiber assemblies within biological cells. For this, we also incorporate thekey biophysical elements that determine the dynamics of these assemblies, whichinclude the polymerization and depolymerization kinetics of fibers, theirinteractions with molecular motors and other objects, their flexibility, andhydrodynamic coupling.  This work, to our knowledge, is the first technique to include many-bodyhydrodynamic interactions (HIs), and the resulting fluid flows, in cellularfiber assemblies. We use the non-local slender body theory to compute thefluid-structure interactions of the fibers and a second-kind boundary integralformulation for other rigid bodies and the confining boundary. Akernel-independent implementation of the fast multiple method is utilized forefficient evaluation of HIs. The deformation of the fibers is described by thenonlinear Euler--Bernoulli beam theory and their polymerization is modeled bythe reparametrization of the dynamic equations in the appropriatenon-Lagrangian frame. We use a pseudo-spectral representation of fiberpositions and implicit HIs in the time-stepping to resolve large fiberdeformations, and to allow time-steps not constrained by temporal stiffness orfiber-fiber interactions. The entire computational scheme is parallelized,which enables simulating assemblies of thousands of fibers. We use our methodto investigate two important questions in the mechanics of cell division: (i)the effect of confinement on the hydrodynamic mobility of microtubule asters;and (ii) the dynamics of the positioning of mitotic spindle in complex cellgeometries.

Cytoplasmic flows as signatures for the mechanics of mitotic positioning

  The proper positioning of the mitotic spindle is crucial for asymmetric celldivision and generating cell diversity during development. Proper position inthe single-cell embryo of Caenorhabditis elegans is achieved initially by themigration and rotation of the pronuclear complex (PNC) and its two associatedcentrosomal arrays of microtubules (MTs). We present here the first systematictheoretical study of how these $O(1000)$ centrosomal microtubules (MTs)interact through the immersing cytoplasm, the cell periphery and PNC, and witheach other, to achieve proper position. This study is made possible through ourdevelopment of a highly efficient and parallelized computational framework thataccounts explicitly for long-ranged hydrodynamic interactions (HIs) between theMTs, while also capturing their flexibility, dynamic instability, andinteractions with molecular motors and boundaries. First, we show throughdirect simulation that previous estimates of the PNC drag coefficient, based oneither ignoring or partially including HIs, lead to misprediction of the activeforces and time-scales of migration. We then directly study the dynamics of PNCmigration under various force-transduction models, including the pushing orpulling of MTs at the cortex, and the pulling of MTs by cytoplasmically-boundforce generators. While achieving proper position and orientation onphysiologically reasonable time-scales does not uniquely choose a model, wefind that each model produces a different signature in its induced cytoplasmicflow and MT conformations. We suggest then that cytoplasmic flows and MTconformations can be used to differentiate between mechanisms and to determinetheir contribution to the migration process.

A Tensor-Train accelerated solver for integral equations in complex  geometries

  We present a framework using the Quantized Tensor Train (QTT) decompositionto accurately and efficiently solve volume and boundary integral equations inthree dimensions. We describe how the QTT decomposition can be used as ahierarchical compression and inversion scheme for matrices arising from thediscretization of integral equations. For a broad range of problems,computational and storage costs of the inversion scheme are extremely modest$O(\log N)$ and once the inverse is computed, it can be applied in $O(N \logN)$.  We analyze the QTT ranks for hierarchically low rank matrices and discuss itsrelationship to commonly used hierarchical compression techniques such as FMMand HSS. We prove that the QTT ranks are bounded for translation-invariantsystems and argue that this behavior extends to non-translation invariantvolume and boundary integrals.  For volume integrals, the QTT decomposition provides an efficient directsolver requiring significantly less memory compared to other fast directsolvers. We present results demonstrating the remarkable performance of theQTT-based solver when applied to both translation and non-translation invariantvolume integrals in 3D.  For boundary integral equations, we demonstrate that using a QTTdecomposition to construct preconditioners for a Krylov subspace method leadsto an efficient and robust solver with a small memory footprint. We test theQTT preconditioners in the iterative solution of an exterior elliptic boundaryvalue problem (Laplace) formulated as a boundary integral equation in complex,multiply connected geometries.

Parallel contact-aware simulations of deformable particles in 3D Stokes  flow

  We present a parallel-scalable method for simulating non-dilute suspensionsof deformable particles immersed in Stokesian fluid in three dimensions. Acritical component in these simulations is robust and accurate collisionhandling. This work complements our previous work [L. Lu, A. Rahimian, and D.Zorin. Contact-aware simulations of particulate Stokesian suspensions. Journalof Computational Physics 347C: 160-182] by extending it to 3D and byintroducing new parallel algorithms for collision detection and handling. Weuse a well-established boundary integral formulation with spectral Galerkinmethod to solve the fluid flow. The key idea is to ensure an interference-freeparticle configuration by introducing explicit contact constraints into thesystem. While such constraints are typically unnecessary in the formulationthey make it possible to eliminate catastrophic loss of accuracy in thediscretized problem by preventing contact explicitly. The incorporation ofcontact constraints results in a significant increase in stable time-step sizefor locally-implicit time-stepping and a reduction in the necessary number ofdiscretization points for stability. Our method maintains the accuracy ofprevious methods at a significantly lower cost for dense suspensions and thetime step size is independent from the volume fraction. Our method permitssimulations with high volume fractions; we report results with up to 60% volumefraction. We demonstrated the parallel scaling of the algorithms on up to 16KCPU cores.

