Underwater Surveying via Bearing only Cooperative Localization

  Bearing only cooperative localization has been used successfully on aerialand ground vehicles. In this paper we present an extension of the approach tothe underwater domain. The focus is on adapting the technique to handle thechallenging visibility conditions underwater. Furthermore, data from inertial,magnetic, and depth sensors are utilized to improve the robustness of theestimation. In addition to robotic applications, the presented technique can beused for cave mapping and for marine archeology surveying, both by humandivers. Experimental results from different environments, including a freshwater, low visibility, lake in South Carolina; a cavern in Florida; and coralreefs in Barbados during the day and during the night, validate the robustnessand the accuracy of the proposed approach.

Multi-robot Dubins Coverage with Autonomous Surface Vehicles

  In large scale coverage operations, such as marine exploration or aerialmonitoring, single robot approaches are not ideal, as they may take too long tocover a large area. In such scenarios, multi-robot approaches are preferable.Furthermore, several real world vehicles are non-holonomic, but can be modeledusing Dubins vehicle kinematics. This paper focuses on environmental monitoringof aquatic environments using Autonomous Surface Vehicles (ASVs). Inparticular, we propose a novel approach for solving the problem of completecoverage of a known environment by a multi-robot team consisting of Dubinsvehicles. It is worth noting that both multi-robot coverage and Dubins vehiclecoverage are NP-complete problems. As such, we present two heuristics methodsbased on a variant of the traveling salesman problem -- k-TSP -- formulationand clustering algorithms that efficiently solve the problem. The proposedmethods are tested both in simulations to assess their scalability and with ateam of ASVs operating on a lake to ensure their applicability in real world.

An Autonomous Surface Vehicle for Long Term Operations

  Environmental monitoring of marine environments presents several challenges:the harshness of the environment, the often remote location, and mostimportantly, the vast area it covers. Manual operations are time consuming,often dangerous, and labor intensive. Operations from oceanographic vessels arecostly and limited to open seas and generally deeper bodies of water. Inaddition, with lake, river, and ocean shoreline being a finite resource,waterfront property presents an ever increasing valued commodity, requiringexploration and continued monitoring of remote waterways. In order toefficiently explore and monitor currently known marine environments as well asreach and explore remote areas of interest, we present a design of anautonomous surface vehicle (ASV) with the power to cover large areas, thepayload capacity to carry sufficient power and sensor equipment, and enoughfuel to remain on task for extended periods. An analysis of the design and adiscussion on lessons learned during deployments is presented in this paper.

External Force Field Modeling for Autonomous Surface Vehicles

  Operating in the presence of strong adverse forces is a particularlychallenging problem in field robotics. In most robotic operations where therobot is not firmly grounded, such as aerial, surface, and underwater, minimalexternal forces are assumed as the standard operating procedures. The firstaction for operating in the presence of non-trivial forces is modeling theforces and their effect on the robots motion. In this work an AutonomousSurface Vehicle (ASV), operating on lakes and rivers with varying winds andcurrents, collects wind and current measurements with an inexpensivecustom-made sensor suite setup, and generates a model of the force field. Themodeling process takes into account depth, wind, and current measurements alongwith the ASVs trajectory from GPS. In this work, we propose a method for an ASVto build an environmental force map by integrating in a Gaussian Process thewind, depth, and current measurements gathered at the surface. We run extensiveexperimental field trials for our approach on real Jetyak ASVs. Experimentalresults from different locations validate the proposed modeling approach.

An Underwater SLAM System using Sonar, Visual, Inertial, and Depth  Sensor

  This paper presents a novel tightly-coupled keyframe-based SimultaneousLocalization and Mapping (SLAM) system with loop-closing and relocalizationcapabilities targeted for the underwater domain. Our previous work, SVIn,augmented the state-of-the-art visual-inertial state estimation package OKVISto accommodate acoustic data from sonar in a non-linear optimization-basedframework. This paper addresses drift and loss of localization -- one of themain problems affecting other packages in underwater domain -- by providing thefollowing main contributions: a robust initialization method to refine scaleusing depth measurements, a fast preprocessing step to enhance the imagequality, and a real-time loop-closing and relocalization method using bag ofwords (BoW). An additional contribution is the addition of depth measurementsfrom a pressure sensor to the tightly-coupled optimization formulation.Experimental results on datasets collected with a custom-made underwater sensorsuite and an autonomous underwater vehicle from challenging underwaterenvironments with poor visibility demonstrate performance never achieved beforein terms of accuracy and robustness.

Autonomous Marine Sampling Enhanced by Strategically Deployed Drifters  in Marine Flow Fields

  We present a transportable system for ocean observations in which a smallautonomous surface vehicle (ASV) adaptively collects spatially diverse sampleswith aid from a team of inexpensive, passive floating sensors known asdrifters. Drifters can provide an increase in spatial coverage at little costas they are propelled about the survey area by the ambient flow field insteadof with actuators. Our iterative planning approach demonstrates how we can usethe ASV to strategically deploy drifters into points of the flow field for highexpected information gain, while also adaptively sampling the space. In thispaper, we examine the performance of this heterogeneous sensing system insimulated flow field experiments.

Experimental Comparison of Open Source Visual-Inertial-Based State  Estimation Algorithms in the Underwater Domain

  A plethora of state estimation techniques have appeared in the last decadeusing visual data, and more recently with added inertial data. Datasetstypically used for evaluation include indoor and urban environments, wheresupporting videos have shown impressive performance. However, such techniqueshave not been fully evaluated in challenging conditions, such as the marinedomain. In this paper, we compare ten recent open-source packages to provideinsights on their performance and guidelines on addressing current challenges.Specifically, we selected direct methods and tightly-coupled optimizationtechniques that fuse camera and Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) data together.Experiments are conducted by testing all packages on datasets collected overthe years with underwater robots in our laboratory. All the datasets are madeavailable online.

