Detecting Sockpuppets in Deceptive Opinion Spam

  This paper explores the problem of sockpuppet detection in deceptive opinionspam using authorship attribution and verification approaches. Two methods areexplored. The first is a feature subsampling scheme that uses the KL-Divergenceon stylistic language models of an author to find discriminative features. Thesecond is a transduction scheme, spy induction that leverages the diversity ofauthors in the unlabeled test set by sending a set of spies (positive samples)from the training set to retrieve hidden samples in the unlabeled test setusing nearest and farthest neighbors. Experiments using ground truth sockpuppetdata show the effectiveness of the proposed schemes.

Anticipation: an effective evolutionary strategy for a sub-optimal  population in a cyclic environment

  We built a two-state model of an asexually reproducing organism in a periodicenvironment endowed with the capability to anticipate an upcoming environmentalchange and undergo pre-emptive switching. By virtue of these anticipatorytransitions, the organism oscillates between its two states that is a time$\theta$ out of sync with the environmental oscillation. We show that ananticipation-capable organism increases its long-term fitness over an organismthat oscillates in-sync with the environment, provided $\theta$ does not exceeda threshold. We also show that the long-term fitness is maximized for anoptimal anticipation time that decreases approximately as $1/n$, $n$ being thenumber of cell divisions in time $T$. Furthermore, we demonstrate that optimal"anticipators" outperforms "bet-hedgers" in the range of parameters considered.For a sub-optimal ensemble of anticipators, anticipation performs better tobet-hedging only when the variance in anticipation is small compared to themean and the rate of pre-emptive transition is high. Taken together, our worksuggests that anticipation increases overall fitness of an organism in aperiodic environment and it is a viable alternative to bet-hedging provided theerror in anticipation is small.

Characterizing Product Lifecycle in Online Marketing: Sales, Trust,  Revenue, and Competition Modeling

  Recent researches have seen an upsurge in the analysis of consumer reviews.Although, several dimensions have been explored, less is known on the temporaldynamics of events that happen over the lifecycle of online products. What arethe dominant sales patterns? How are they affected by review count, rating,helpfulness and sentiment? How is trust characterized and what are its effectson sales and revenue? What happens during a market competition? When does atakeover/recovery happen and by what percentage do sales increase on atakeover? This work aims to answer these fundamental research questions basedon a sales time-series analysis of reviews of over 1 million products fromAmazon.com. We discover novel temporal patterns of sales and interestingcorrelations of sales with the ratings. We find that trust and helpfulness areimportant for higher revenue. Based on the analyses, we propose a model toforecast sales that significantly outperforms other baselines. We then explorethe phenomena of market competition. Particularly, we characterize differentfactors that govern survival/death of a product under competition and a modelfor competition forecast. Experimental results on large-scale reviewsdemonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approaches.

ENWalk: Learning Network Features for Spam Detection in Twitter

  Social medias are increasing their influence with the vast public informationleading to their active use for marketing by the companies and organizations.Such marketing promotions are difficult to identify unlike the traditionalmedias like TV and newspaper. So, it is very much important to identify thepromoters in the social media. Although, there are active ongoing researches,existing approaches are far from solving the problem. To identify suchimposters, it is very much important to understand their strategies of socialcircle creation and dynamics of content posting. Are there any specific spammertypes? How successful are each types? We analyze these questions in the lightof social relationships in Twitter. Our analyses discover two types of spammersand their relationships with the dynamics of content posts. Our resultsdiscover novel dynamics of spamming which are intuitive and arguable. Wepropose ENWalk, a framework to detect the spammers by learning the featurerepresentations of the users in the social media. We learn the featurerepresentations using the random walks biased on the spam dynamics.Experimental results on large-scale twitter network and the correspondingtweets show the effectiveness of our approach that outperforms the existingapproaches

Satirical News Detection and Analysis using Attention Mechanism and  Linguistic Features

  Satirical news is considered to be entertainment, but it is potentiallydeceptive and harmful. Despite the embedded genre in the article, not everyonecan recognize the satirical cues and therefore believe the news as true news.We observe that satirical cues are often reflected in certain paragraphs ratherthan the whole document. Existing works only consider document-level featuresto detect the satire, which could be limited. We consider paragraph-levellinguistic features to unveil the satire by incorporating neural network andattention mechanism. We investigate the difference between paragraph-levelfeatures and document-level features, and analyze them on a large satiricalnews dataset. The evaluation shows that the proposed model detects satiricalnews effectively and reveals what features are important at which level.

Experiments with Neural Networks for Small and Large Scale Authorship  Verification

  We propose two models for a special case of authorship verification problem.The task is to investigate whether the two documents of a given pair arewritten by the same author. We consider the authorship verification problem forboth small and large scale datasets. The underlying small-scale problem has twomain challenges: First, the authors of the documents are unknown to us becauseno previous writing samples are available. Second, the two documents are short(a few hundred to a few thousand words) and may differ considerably in thegenre and/or topic. To solve it we propose transformation encoder to transformone document of the pair into the other. This document transformation generatesa loss which is used as a recognizable feature to verify if the authors of thepair are identical. For the large scale problem where various authors areengaged and more examples are available with larger length, a parallelrecurrent neural network is proposed. It compares the language models of thetwo documents. We evaluate our methods on various types of datasets includingAuthorship Identification datasets of PAN competition, Amazon reviews, andmachine learning articles. Experiments show that both methods achieve stableand competitive performance compared to the baselines.

Aspect Specific Opinion Expression Extraction using Attention based  LSTM-CRF Network

  Opinion phrase extraction is one of the key tasks in fine-grained sentimentanalysis. While opinion expressions could be generic subjective expressions,aspect specific opinion expressions contain both the aspect as well as theopinion expression within the original sentence context. In this work, weformulate the task as an instance of token-level sequence labeling. Whenmultiple aspects are present in a sentence, detection of opinion phraseboundary becomes difficult and label of each word depend not only upon thesurrounding words but also with the concerned aspect. We propose a neuralnetwork architecture with bidirectional LSTM (Bi-LSTM) and a novel attentionmechanism. Bi-LSTM layer learns the various sequential pattern among the wordswithout requiring any hand-crafted features. The attention mechanism capturesthe importance of context words on a particular aspect opinion expression whenmultiple aspects are present in a sentence via location and content basedmemory. A Conditional Random Field (CRF) model is incorporated in the finallayer to explicitly model the dependencies among the output labels.Experimental results on Hotel dataset from Tripadvisor.com showed that ourapproach outperformed several state-of-the-art baselines.

Modeling Review Spam Using Temporal Patterns and Co-bursting Behaviors

  Online reviews play a crucial role in helping consumers evaluate and compareproducts and services. However, review hosting sites are often targeted byopinion spamming. In recent years, many such sites have put a great deal ofeffort in building effective review filtering systems to detect fake reviewsand to block malicious accounts. Thus, fraudsters or spammers now turn tocompromise, purchase or even raise reputable accounts to write fake reviews.Based on the analysis of a real-life dataset from a review hosting site(dianping.com), we discovered that reviewers' posting rates are bimodal and thetransitions between different states can be utilized to differentiate spammersfrom genuine reviewers. Inspired by these findings, we propose a two-modeLabeled Hidden Markov Model to detect spammers. Experimental results show thatour model significantly outperforms supervised learning using linguistic andbehavioral features in identifying spammers. Furthermore, we found that when aproduct has a burst of reviews, many spammers are likely to be activelyinvolved in writing reviews to the product as well as to many other products.We then propose a novel co-bursting network for detecting spammer groups. Theco-bursting network enables us to produce more accurate spammer groups than thecurrent state-of-the-art reviewer-product (co-reviewing) network.

Interaction of light and semiconductor can generate quantum states  required for solid state quantum computing: Entangled, steered and other  nonclassical states

  Proposals for solid state quantum computing are extremely promising as theycan be used to built room temperature quantum computers. If such a quantumcomputer is ever built it would require in-built sources of nonclassical statesrequired for various quantum information processing tasks. Possibilities ofgeneration of such nonclassical states are investigated here for a physicalsystem composed of a monochromatic light coupled to a two-band semiconductorwith direct band gap. The model Hamiltonian includes both photon-exciton andexciton-exciton interactions. Time evolution of the relevant bosonic operatorsare obtained analytically by using a perturbative technique that providesoperator solution for the coupled Heisenberg's equations of motioncorresponding to the system Hamiltonian. The bosonic operators are subsequentlyused to study the possibilities of observing single and two mode squeezing andantibunching after interaction in the relevant modes of light andsemiconductor. Further, entanglement between the exciton and photon modes isreported. Finally, the nonclassical effects have been studied numerically forthe open quantum system scenario. In this situation, the nonlocal correlationsbetween two modes are shown to violate EPR steering inequality. The observednonclassical features, induced due to exciton-exciton pair interaction, can becontrolled by the phase of input field and the correlations between two modesare shown to enhance due to nonclassicality in the input field.

