A study on some combinatorial sets in partial semigroup

  In the partial semigroup framework, this article deals with the closeinvestigation of the combinatorial sets which play an important role in thestudy of combinatorics. Also, we study the pullback and push-forward propertiesof those sets.

The Study of Magnetically Deformed Atoms in the Outer Crust of Neutron  Stars in Presence of Strong Quantizing Magnetic Field

  We have studied the various properties of magnetically deformed atoms,replaced by deformed Wigner-Seitz cells, at the outer crust region of stronglymagnetized neutron stars (magnetars) using a relativistic version ofThomas-Fermi model in cylindrical coordinates.

A Generalized Central Sets Theorem In Partial Semigroups

  The most powerful formulation of the Central Sets Theorem in an arbitrarysemigroup was proved in the work of De, Hindman, and Strauss. The sets whichsatisfy the conclusion of the above Central Sets Theorem are called $C$-sets.The original Central Sets Theorem was extended by J. McLeod for adequatecommutative partial semigroups. In this work, we will extend the Central SetsTheorem obtained by taking all possible adequate sequences in a commutativeadequate partial semigroup. We shall also discuss a sufficient condition forbeing a set $C$-set in our context.

Work Function of Strongly Magnetized Neutron Star Crustal Matter and the  Associated Magneto-Sphere

  Following an extremely interesting idea \cite{R1}, published long ago, thework function at the outer crust region of a strongly magnetized neutron staris obtained using relativistic version of Thomas-Fermi type model. In thepresent scenario, the work function becomes anisotropic; the longitudinal partis an increasing function of magnetic field strength, whereas the transversepart diverges. An approximate estimate of the electron density in themagnetosphere due to field emission and photo emission current, from the polarcap region are obtained.

Anisotropic Nature of Work Function in Strong Quantizing Magnetic Field

  Following an extremely interesting idea \cite{R1}, published long ago, thework function associated with the emission of ultra-relativistic electrons frommagnetically deformed metallic crystal of astrophysical relevance is obtainedusing relativistic version of Thomas-Fermi type model. In the present scenario,surprisingly, the work function becomes anisotropic; the longitudinal part isan increasing function of magnetic field strength, whereas the transverse partdiverges.

A Relativistic Generalization of Fowler-Nordheim Cold Emission in  Presence of Strong Magnetic Field

  A relativistic version of cold emission of electrons in presence of strongmagnetic field, relevant for strongly magnetized neutron stars is obtained. Itis found that in this scenario, a scalar type potential barrier does not allowquantum tunneling through the surface. Whereas, in presence of a vector typesurface barrier, the probability of electron emission is much larger comparedto the original Fowler-Nordheim cold emission of electrons. It is found thatthe relativistic version in presence of strong magnetic field does not followexponential decay.

A Theoretical Study of the Magnetically Deformed Inner Crust Matter of  Magnetars

  We have studied various physical properties of magnetically deformed atomsand the associated matter, replacing the atoms by the deformed Wigner-Seitz(WS) cells at the crustal region of strongly magnetized neutron stars(magnetars). A relativistic version of Thomas-Fermi (TF) model in presence ofstrong magnetic field in cylindrical coordinates is used to study theproperties of such matter.

Decay dynamics in a strongly driven atom-molecule coupled system

  Within the framework of master equation, we study decay dynamics of anatom-molecule system strongly coupled by two photoassociation lasers. Summingover the infinite number of electromagnetic vacuum modes that are coupled tothe laser-dressed atom-molecule system, we obtain an integro-differentialmaster equation for the the system's reduced density matrix. The equation isnumerically solved to describe system dynamics in the presence of decay. Inparticular, we discuss correlated spontaneous emission from a pair ofelectronically excited diatomic ro-vibrational states due to their laserinduced coupling to the ground continuum of atomic scattering states. Thisallows us to calculate time-dependence of emitted radiation intensity. Itexhibits quantum beats due to coherent dynamics. The phase difference betweenthe two driving fields is found to significantly affect the decay dynamics andthe beats. Our results demonstrate the possibility to control decay from themolecular excited states and the decoherence between them by changing therelative intensity and the phase between the lasers. We further show that, ifthe ground-state continuum has a shape resonance at a low energy, then thequantum beats show two distinctive time scales of oscillations in the strongcoupling regime. One of the time scales originates from the energy gap betweenthe two excited states while the other time scale corresponds to the collisionenergy at which free-bound Franck-Condon overlap is resonantly peaked due tothe shape resonance.

Implementing Optimal Outcomes in Social Computing: A Game-Theoretic  Approach

  In many social computing applications such as online Q&A forums, the bestcontribution for each task receives some high reward, while all remainingcontributions receive an identical, lower reward irrespective of their actualqualities. Suppose a mechanism designer (site owner) wishes to optimize anobjective that is some function of the number and qualities of receivedcontributions. When potential contributors are strategic agents, who decidewhether to contribute or not to selfishly maximize their own utilities, is sucha "best contribution" mechanism, M_B, adequate to implement an outcome that isoptimal for the mechanism designer?  We first show that in settings where a contribution's value is determinedprimarily by an agent's expertise, and agents only strategically choose whetherto contribute or not, contests can implement optimal outcomes: for anyreasonable objective, the rewards for the best and remaining contributions inM_B can always be chosen so that the outcome in the unique symmetricequilibrium of M_B maximizes the mechanism designer's utility. We also show howthe mechanism designer can learn these optimal rewards when she does not knowthe parameters of the agents' utilities, as might be the case in practice. Wenext consider settings where a contribution's value depends on both thecontributor's expertise as well as her effort, and agents endogenously choosehow much effort to exert in addition to deciding whether to contribute. Here,we show that optimal outcomes can never be implemented by contests if thesystem can rank the qualities of contributions perfectly. However, if there isnoise in the contributions' rankings, then the mechanism designer can againinduce agents to follow strategies that maximize his utility. Thus imperfectrankings can actually help achieve implementability of optimal outcomes wheneffort is endogenous and influences quality.

Crowdsourcing with Endogenous Entry

  We investigate the design of mechanisms to incentivize high quality incrowdsourcing environments with strategic agents, when entry is an endogenous,strategic choice. Modeling endogenous entry in crowdsourcing is importantbecause there is a nonzero cost to making a contribution of any quality whichcan be avoided by not participating, and indeed many sites based oncrowdsourced content do not have adequate participation. We use a mechanismwith monotone, rank-based, rewards in a model where agents strategically makeparticipation and quality choices to capture a wide variety of crowdsourcingenvironments, ranging from conventional crowdsourcing contests to crowdsourcedcontent as in online Q&A forums.  We first explicitly construct the unique mixed-strategy equilibrium for suchmonotone rank-order mechanisms, and use these participation probabilities andquality distribution to address the design of incentives for two kinds ofrewards that arise in crowdsourcing. We first show that for attention rewardsas in crowdsourced content, the entire equilibrium distribution improves whenthe rewards for every rank but the last are as high as possible. In particular,when producing the lowest quality content has low cost, the optimal mechanismdisplays all but the worst contribution. We next investigate settings wherethere is a total reward that can be arbitrarily distributed amongst allparticipants, as in crowdsourcing contests. Unlike with exogenous entry, herethe expected number of participants can be increased by subsidizing entry,which could potentially improve the expected quality of the best contribution.However, we show that free entry is dominated by taxing entry- making allentrants pay a small fee, which is rebated to the winner along with whateverrewards were already assigned, can improve the quality of the best contributionover a winner-take-all contest with no taxes.

Crowdsourced Judgement Elicitation with Endogenous Proficiency

  Crowdsourcing is now widely used to replace judgement by an expert authoritywith an aggregate evaluation from a number of non-experts, in applicationsranging from rating and categorizing online content to evaluation of studentassignments in massively open online courses via peer grading. A key issue inthese settings, where direct monitoring is infeasible, is incentivizing agentsin the `crowd' to put in effort to make good evaluations, as well as totruthfully report their evaluations. This leads to a new family of informationelicitation problems with unobservable ground truth, where an agent'sproficiency- the probability with which she correctly evaluates the underlyingground truth- is endogenously determined by her strategic choice of how mucheffort to put into the task.  Our main contribution is a simple, new, mechanism for binary informationelicitation for multiple tasks when agents have endogenous proficiencies, withthe following properties: (i) Exerting maximum effort followed by truthfulreporting of observations is a Nash equilibrium. (ii) This is the equilibriumwith maximum payoff to all agents, even when agents have different maximumproficiencies, can use mixed strategies, and can choose a different strategyfor each of their tasks. Our information elicitation mechanism requires onlyminimal bounds on the priors, asks agents to only report their own evaluations,and does not require any conditions on a diverging number of agent reports pertask to achieve its incentive properties. The main idea behind our mechanism isto use the presence of multiple tasks and ratings to identify and penalizelow-effort agreement: the mechanism rewards agents for agreeing with a`reference' rater on a task but also penalizes for blind agreement bysubtracting out a statistic term designed so that agents obtain reward onlywhen they put effort into their observations.

Bidding for Representative Allocations for Display Advertising

  Display advertising has traditionally been sold via guaranteed contracts -- aguaranteed contract is a deal between a publisher and an advertiser to allocatea certain number of impressions over a certain period, for a pre-specifiedprice per impression. However, as spot markets for display ads, such as theRightMedia Exchange, have grown in prominence, the selection of advertisementsto show on a given page is increasingly being chosen based on price, using anauction. As the number of participants in the exchange grows, the price of animpressions becomes a signal of its value. This correlation between price andvalue means that a seller implementing the contract through bidding shouldoffer the contract buyer a range of prices, and not just the cheapestimpressions necessary to fulfill its demand.  Implementing a contract using a range of prices, is akin to creating a mutualfund of advertising impressions, and requires {\em randomized bidding}. Wecharacterize what allocations can be implemented with randomized bidding,namely those where the desired share obtained at each price is a non-increasingfunction of price. In addition, we provide a full characterization of when aset of campaigns are compatible and how to implement them with randomizedbidding strategies.

Fowler-Nordheim Electron Cold Emission Formalism in Presence of Strong  Magnetic Field

  Formalisms for both non-relativistic as well as relativistic versions offield emission of electrons in presence of strong quantizing magnetic field,relevant for strongly magnetized neutron stars or magnetars are developed. Inthe non-relativistic scenario, where electrons obey Schr{$\ddot{\rm{o}}$}dingerequation, we have noticed that when Landau levels are populated for electronsin presence of strong quantizing magnetic field the transmission probabilityexactly vanishes unless the electrons are spin polarized in the oppositedirection to the external magnetic field. On the other hand, the cold electronemission under the influence of strong electrostatic field at the poles istotally forbidden from the surface of those compact objects for which thesurface magnetic field strength is $\gg 10^{15}$G (in the eventuality that theymay exist). Whereas in the relativistic case, where the electrons obey Diracequation, the presence of strong quantizing magnetic field completely forbidsthe emission of electrons from the surface of compact objects if $B >10^{13}$G.

Nonclassical properties of states engineered by superpositions of  quantum operations on classical states

  We consider an experimentally realizable scheme for manipulating quantumstates using a general superposition of products of field annihilation($\hat{a}$) and creation ($\hat{a}^\dag$) operators of the type ($s\hat{a}\hat{a}^\dag+ t \hat{a}^\dag \hat{a}$), with $s^2 + t^2 = 1$. Such anoperation, when applied on states with classical features, is shown tointroduce strong nonclassicality. We quantify the generated degree ofnonclassicality by the negative volume of Wigner distribution in the phasespace and investigate two other observable nonclassical features,sub-Poissonian statistics and squeezing. We find that the operation introducesnegativity in the Wigner distribution of an input coherent state and changesthe Gaussianity of an input thermal state. This provides the possibility ofengineering quantum states with specific nonclassical features.

Towards Design and Implementation of Space Efficient and Secured  Transmission scheme on EGovernance data

  We know that large amount of data and information should be transmittedthrough internet during transactions in E-Governance. Smart E-Governance systemshould deliver speedy, space efficient, cost effective and secure servicesamong other governments and its citizens utilizing benefits of Information andCommunication Technologies (ICT). This paper proposes to develop a spaceefficient and secured data transmission scheme using Modified Huffman algorithmfor compression, which will also yield better bandwidth utilization and innerencryption technique with one way hash function SHA (Secured Hash Algorithm) toensure Message integrity.

Bargaining for Revenue Shares on Tree Trading Networks

  We study trade networks with a tree structure, where a seller with a singleindivisible good is connected to buyers, each with some value for the good, viaa unique path of intermediaries. Agents in the tree make multiplicative revenueshare offers to their parent nodes, who choose the best offer and offer part ofit to their parent, and so on; the winning path is determined by who finallymakes the highest offer to the seller. In this paper, we investigate how theserevenue shares might be set via a natural bargaining process between agents onthe tree, specifically, egalitarian bargaining between endpoints of each edgein the tree. We investigate the fixed point of this system of bargainingequations and prove various desirable for this solution concept, including (i)existence, (ii) uniqueness, (iii) efficiency, (iv) membership in the core, (v)strict monotonicity, (vi) polynomial-time computability to any given accuracy.Finally, we present numerical evidence that asynchronous dynamics with randomlyordered updates always converges to the fixed point, indicating that the fixedpoint shares might arise from decentralized bargaining amongst agents on thetrade network.

Device Independent Quantum Private Query with Finite Number of Entangled  Qubits

  In a recent work by Maitra et al. (Phys. Rev. A, 2017), it was shown that theexisting Quantum Private Query (QPQ) protocols fail to maintain the databasesecurity if the entangled states shared between Alice and Bob are not of acertain form. So it is necessary to certify the states a priori. In thisregard, the local CHSH test was proposed. However, the proposed scheme worksperfectly for the asymptotic case when we have infinite number of qubits. Inthis brief report, we upgrade the protocol for finite number of qubits andconnect the sample size to the success probability of CHSH test. We alsoperform a rigorous security analysis of the proposed protocol.

Games With Tolerant Players

  A notion of pi-tolerant equilibrium is defined that takes into account thatplayers have some tolerance regarding payoffs in a game. This solution conceptgeneralizes Nash and refines epsilon-Nash equilibrium in a natural way. We showthat pi-tolerant equilibrium can explain cooperation in social dilemmas such asPrisoner's Dilemma and the Public Good game. We then examine the structure ofparticularly cooperative pi-tolerant equilibria, where players are ascooperative as they can be, subject to their tolerances, in Prisoner's Dilemma.To the extent that cooperation is due to tolerance, these results provideguidance to a mechanism designer who has some control over the payoffs in agame, and suggest ways in which cooperation can be increased.

Improvement in Cell Imaging by Applying a New Natural Dye from Beet Root  Extraction

  Fluorescent dyes are getting popularity for last few decades due to theirextraordinary applications in cell imaging. We have discovered organic Beetroot extracted fluorescent (BREF) dye as an efficient pigment for effectivecell imaging. By applying this dye to different types of human cells weobtained very good results in fluorescence cell imaging in case of all types ofcells. We also have seen that this dye takes very less internalization time togive very good image of cells and remains stable for sufficiently long period.

Universally Utility-Maximizing Privacy Mechanisms

  A mechanism for releasing information about a statistical database withsensitive data must resolve a trade-off between utility and privacy. Privacycan be rigorously quantified using the framework of {\em differential privacy},which requires that a mechanism's output distribution is nearly the samewhether or not a given database row is included or excluded. The goal of thispaper is strong and general utility guarantees, subject to differentialprivacy.  We pursue mechanisms that guarantee near-optimal utility to every potentialuser, independent of its side information (modeled as a prior distribution overquery results) and preferences (modeled via a loss function).  Our main result is: for each fixed count query and differential privacylevel, there is a {\em geometric mechanism} $M^*$ -- a discrete variant of thesimple and well-studied Laplace mechanism -- that is {\em simultaneouslyexpected loss-minimizing} for every possible user, subject to the differentialprivacy constraint. This is an extremely strong utility guarantee: {\em every}potential user $u$, no matter what its side information and preferences,derives as much utility from $M^*$ as from interacting with a differentiallyprivate mechanism $M_u$ that is optimally tailored to $u$.

Controllable quantum correlations of two-photon states generated using  classically driven three-level atoms

  We investigate the dynamics of two-photon correlations generated by theinteraction of a three-level atom in the $\Xi$, $\Lambda$ or V configuration,with two classical external driving fields, under the rotating-waveapproximation, in the presence of level decays. Using the example of a rubidiumatom in each configuration, with field strengths validating the single-photonapproximation, we compute measurement based correlations, such as measurementinduced disturbance (MID), quantum discord (QD), and quantum work deficit (WD),and compare the results with that of quantum entanglement (concurrence).Certain correlation properties observed are generic, model independent andconsistent with known results, e.g., MID is an upper bound on QD, QD and WD aremonotonic, and the generic correlation behavior is strongly affected by thepurity of the photon states. We observe that the qualitative hierarchy,monotonicity and steady-state behavior of the correlations can be controlled bythe choice of parameters such as atomic decay constants and external drivingfield strengths. We point out how particular configurations are better suitedat generating monotonic correlations in specific regimes and how thesteady-state correlation behavior and hierarchy are affected by the populationdynamics of the density matrix for different parameters. The possibility ofusing well studied quantum optical systems such as the three-level atom togenerate, characterize and parametrically control mixed state quantumcorrelations establishes an important step in the direction of theirimplementation in quantum information tasks.

Buying Private Data without Verification

  We consider the problem of designing a survey to aggregate non-verifiableinformation from a privacy-sensitive population: an analyst wants to computesome aggregate statistic from the private bits held by each member of apopulation, but cannot verify the correctness of the bits reported byparticipants in his survey. Individuals in the population are strategic agentswith a cost for privacy, \ie, they not only account for the payments theyexpect to receive from the mechanism, but also their privacy costs from anyinformation revealed about them by the mechanism's outcome---the computedstatistic as well as the payments---to determine their utilities. How can theanalyst design payments to obtain an accurate estimate of the populationstatistic when individuals strategically decide both whether to participate andwhether to truthfully report their sensitive information?  We design a differentially private peer-prediction mechanism that supportsaccurate estimation of the population statistic as a Bayes-Nash equilibrium insettings where agents have explicit preferences for privacy. The mechanismrequires knowledge of the marginal prior distribution on bits $b_i$, but doesnot need full knowledge of the marginal distribution on the costs $c_i$,instead requiring only an approximate upper bound. Our mechanism guarantees$\epsilon$-differential privacy to each agent $i$ against any adversary who canobserve the statistical estimate output by the mechanism, as well as thepayments made to the $n-1$ other agents $j\neq i$. Finally, we show that withslightly more structured assumptions on the privacy cost functions of eachagent, the cost of running the survey goes to $0$ as the number of agentsdiverges.

Inferential Privacy Guarantees for Differentially Private Mechanisms

  The correlations and network structure amongst individuals in datasetstoday---whether explicitly articulated, or deduced from biological orbehavioral connections---pose new issues around privacy guarantees, because ofinferences that can be made about one individual from another's data. Thismotivates quantifying privacy in networked contexts in terms of "inferentialprivacy"---which measures the change in beliefs about an individual's data fromthe result of a computation---as originally proposed by Dalenius in the 1970's.Inferential privacy is implied by differential privacy when data areindependent, but can be much worse when data are correlated; indeed, simpleexamples, as well as a general impossibility theorem of Dwork and Naor,preclude the possibility of achieving non-trivial inferential privacy when theadversary can have arbitrary auxiliary information. In this paper, we ask howdifferential privacy guarantees translate to guarantees on inferential privacyin networked contexts: specifically, under what limitations on the adversary'sinformation about correlations, modeled as a prior distribution over datasets,can we deduce an inferential guarantee from a differential one?  We prove two main results. The first result pertains to distributions thatsatisfy a natural positive-affiliation condition, and gives an upper bound onthe inferential privacy guarantee for any differentially private mechanism.This upper bound is matched by a simple mechanism that adds Laplace noise tothe sum of the data. The second result pertains to distributions that have weakcorrelations, defined in terms of a suitable "influence matrix". The resultprovides an upper bound for inferential privacy in terms of the differentialprivacy parameter and the spectral norm of this matrix.

Truthful Assignment without Money

  We study the design of truthful mechanisms that do not use payments for thegeneralized assignment problem (GAP) and its variants. An instance of the GAPconsists of a bipartite graph with jobs on one side and machines on the other.Machines have capacities and edges have values and sizes; the goal is toconstruct a welfare maximizing feasible assignment. In our model of privatevaluations, motivated by impossibility results, the value and sizes on alljob-machine pairs are public information; however, whether an edge exists ornot in the bipartite graph is a job's private information.  We study several variants of the GAP starting with matching. For theunweighted version, we give an optimal strategyproof mechanism; for maximumweight bipartite matching, however, we show give a 2-approximate strategyproofmechanism and show by a matching lowerbound that this is optimal. Next we studyknapsack-like problems, which are APX-hard. For these problems, we develop ageneral LP-based technique that extends the ideas of Lavi and Swamy to reducedesigning a truthful mechanism without money to designing such a mechanism forthe fractional version of the problem, at a loss of a factor equal to theintegrality gap in the approximation ratio. We use this technique to obtainstrategyproof mechanisms with constant approximation ratios for these problems.We then design an O(log n)-approximate strategyproof mechanism for the GAP byreducing, with logarithmic loss in the approximation, to our solution for thevalue-invariant GAP. Our technique may be of independent interest for designingtruthful mechanisms without money for other LP-based problems.

Competitive Equilibria in Matching Markets with Budgets

  We study competitive equilibria in the classic Shapley-Shubik assignmentmodel with indivisible goods and unit-demand buyers, with budget constraints:buyers can specify a maximum price they are willing to pay for each item,beyond which they cannot afford the item. This single discontinuity introducedby the budget constraint fundamentally changes the properties of equilibria: inthe assignment model without budget constraints, a competitive equilibriumalways exists, and corresponds exactly to a stable matching. With budgets, acompetitive equilibrium need not always exist. In addition, there are now twodistinct notions of stability, depending on whether both or only one of thebuyer and seller can strictly benefit in a blocking pair, that no longercoincide due to the budget-induced discontinuity. We define weak and strongstability for the assignment model with transferable utilities, and show thatcompetitive equilibria correspond exactly to strongly stable matchings.  We consider the algorithmic question of efficiently computing competitiveequilibria in an extension of the assignment model with budgets, where eachbuyer specifies his preferences over items using utility functions $u_{ij}$,where $u_{ij}(p_j)$ is the utility of buyer $i$ for item $j$ when its price is$p_j$. Our main result is a strongly polynomial time algorithm that decideswhether or not a competitive equilibrium exists and if yes, computes a minimumone, for a general class of utility functions $u_{ij}$. This class of utilityfunctions includes the standard quasi-linear utility model with a budgetconstraint, and in addition, allows modeling marketplaces where, for example,buyers only have a preference ranking amongst items subject to a maximumpayment limit for each item, or where buyers want to optimize return oninvestment (ROI) instead of a quasi-linear utility and only know items'relative values.

Selling Privacy at Auction

  We initiate the study of markets for private data, though the lens ofdifferential privacy. Although the purchase and sale of private data hasalready begun on a large scale, a theory of privacy as a commodity is missing.In this paper, we propose to build such a theory. Specifically, we consider asetting in which a data analyst wishes to buy information from a populationfrom which he can estimate some statistic. The analyst wishes to obtain anaccurate estimate cheaply. On the other hand, the owners of the private dataexperience some cost for their loss of privacy, and must be compensated forthis loss. Agents are selfish, and wish to maximize their profit, so our goalis to design truthful mechanisms. Our main result is that such auctions cannaturally be viewed and optimally solved as variants of multi-unit procurementauctions. Based on this result, we derive auctions for two natural settingswhich are optimal up to small constant factors:  1. In the setting in which the data analyst has a fixed accuracy goal, weshow that an application of the classic Vickrey auction achieves the analyst'saccuracy goal while minimizing his total payment.  2. In the setting in which the data analyst has a fixed budget, we give amechanism which maximizes the accuracy of the resulting estimate whileguaranteeing that the resulting sum payments do not exceed the analysts budget.  In both cases, our comparison class is the set of envy-free mechanisms, whichcorrespond to the natural class of fixed-price mechanisms in our setting.  In both of these results, we ignore the privacy cost due to possiblecorrelations between an individuals private data and his valuation for privacyitself. We then show that generically, no individually rational mechanism cancompensate individuals for the privacy loss incurred due to their reportedvaluations for privacy.

Generating continuous variable entangled states for quantum  teleportation using a superposition of number-conserving operations

  We investigate the states generated in continuous variable (CV) opticalfields on operating them with a number-conserving operator of the type$s\hat{a}\hat{a}^\dag + t\hat{a}^\dag\hat{a}$, formed by the generalisedsuperposition of products of field annihilation ($\hat{a}$) and creation($\hat{a}^\dag$) operators, with $s^2+t^2=1$. Such an operator isexperimentally realizable and can be suitably manipulated to generatenonclassical optical states when applied on single- and two-mode coherent,thermal, and squeezed input states. At low intensities, these nonclassicalstates can interact with a secondary mode via a linear optical device togenerate two-mode discrete entangled states, which can serve as a resource inquantum information protocols. The advantage of these operations are tested byapplying the generated entangled states as quantum channels in CV quantumteleportation, under the Braunstein and Kimble protocol. We observe that, underthese operations, while the average fidelity of CV teleportation is enhancedfor the nonclassical channel formed using input squeezed states, it remains atthe classical threshold for input coherent and thermal states. This is due tothe fact that though these operations can introduce discrete entanglement inall input states, it enhances the Einstein-Podolosky-Rosen (EPR) correlationsonly in the nonclassical squeezed state inputs, leading to an advantage in CVteleportation. This shows that nonclassical optical states generated using theabove operations on classical coherent and thermal state inputs are notresourceful for CV teleportation. This investigation could prove useful inefficient implementation of noisy non-Gaussian channels, formed by linearoperations, in future teleportation protocols.

Mapping generalized Jaynes-Cummings interaction into correlated  finite-sized systems

  We consider a generalized Jaynes-Cummings model of a two-level atominteracting with a multimode nondegenerate coherent field. The sum of the modefrequencies is equal to the two-level transition frequency, creating theresonance condition. The intermediate levels associated with the multi-photonprocess are adiabatically eliminated using the non-resonant conditions forthese transitions. Under such general conditions, the infinite atom-multiphotoninteraction is effectively mapped onto an equivalent reduced\textit{2}$\times$\textit{2} bipartite qubit system that facilitates the studyof the nonclassical features of the interaction using knowninformation-theoretic measures. We observe that the bipartite pure system ishighly entangled as quantified by its entanglement of formation. Further, it isshown that the dynamics of the mapped system can be generated using opticallytruncated, quantum scissored states that reduce the infinite atom-multiphotoninteraction to a finite \textit{2}$\times$\textit{k} system, where $k$ is asuitable truncation number. This allows us to introduce atomic dephasing andstudy the mixed state dynamics, characterized by the decay of quantumcorrelations such as quantum discord, which is observed to be more robust thanentanglement. The quantum correlation dynamics of the dissipative systemqualitatively complements the behavior of collapse and revival of the Rabioscillations in the system. The effective mapping of the composite systemproves to be an efficient tool for measuring information-theoretic properties.

Behavioral Mechanism Design: Optimal Contests for Simple Agents

  Incentives are more likely to elicit desired outcomes when they are designedbased on accurate models of agents' strategic behavior. A growing literature,however, suggests that people do not quite behave like standard economic agentsin a variety of environments, both online and offline. What consequences mightsuch differences have for the optimal design of mechanisms in theseenvironments? In this paper, we explore this question in the context of optimalcontest design for simple agents---agents who strategically reason aboutwhether or not to participate in a system, but not about the input they provideto it. Specifically, consider a contest where $n$ potential contestants withtypes $(q_i,c_i)$ each choose between participating and producing a submissionof quality $q_i$ at cost $c_i$, versus not participating at all, to maximizetheir utilities. How should a principal distribute a total prize $V$ amongstthe $n$ ranks to maximize some increasing function of the qualities of elicitedsubmissions in a contest with such simple agents?  We first solve the optimal contest design problem for settings withhomogenous participation costs $c_i = c$. Here, the optimal contest is always asimple contest, awarding equal prizes to the top $j^*$ contestants for asuitable choice of $j^*$. (In comparable models with strategic effort choices,the optimal contest is either a winner-take-all contest or awards possiblyunequal prizes, depending on the curvature of agents' effort cost functions.)We next address the general case with heterogeneous costs where agents' typesare inherently two-dimensional, significantly complicating equilibriumanalysis. Our main result here is that the winner-take-all contest is a3-approximation of the optimal contest when the principal's objective is tomaximize the quality of the best elicited contribution.

