TweeTime: A Minimally Supervised Method for Recognizing and Normalizing  Time Expressions in Twitter

  We describe TweeTIME, a temporal tagger for recognizing and normalizing timeexpressions in Twitter. Most previous work in social media analysis has to relyon temporal resolvers that are designed for well-edited text, and thereforesuffer from the reduced performance due to domain mismatch. We present aminimally supervised method that learns from large quantities of unlabeled dataand requires no hand-engineered rules or hand-annotated training corpora.TweeTIME achieves 0.68 F1 score on the end-to-end task of resolving dateexpressions, outperforming a broad range of state-of-the-art systems.

An Annotated Corpus for Machine Reading of Instructions in Wet Lab  Protocols

  We describe an effort to annotate a corpus of natural language instructionsconsisting of 622 wet lab protocols to facilitate automatic or semi-automaticconversion of protocols into a machine-readable format and benefit biologicalresearch. Experimental results demonstrate the utility of our corpus fordeveloping machine learning approaches to shallow semantic parsing ofinstructional texts. We make our annotated Wet Lab Protocol Corpus available tothe research community.

Structured Minimally Supervised Learning for Neural Relation Extraction

  We present an approach to minimally supervised relation extraction thatcombines the benefits of learned representations and structured learning, andaccurately predicts sentence-level relation mentions given onlyproposition-level supervision from a KB. By explicitly reasoning about missingdata during learning, our approach enables large-scale training of 1Dconvolutional neural networks while mitigating the issue of label noiseinherent in distant supervision. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art resultson minimally supervised sentential relation extraction, outperforming a numberof baselines, including a competitive approach that uses the attention layer ofa purely neural model.

Metal Transport and Chemical Heterogeneity in Early Star Forming Systems

  To constrain the properties of the first stars with the chemical abundancepatterns observed in metal-poor stars, one must identify any non-trivialeffects that the hydrodynamics of metal dispersal can imprint on theabundances. We use realistic cosmological hydrodynamic simulations to quantifythe distribution of metals resulting from one Population III supernova and froma small number of such supernovae exploding in close succession. Overall,supernova ejecta are highly inhomogeneously dispersed throughout thesimulations. When the supernova bubbles collapse, quasi-virializedmetal-enriched clouds, fed by fallback from the bubbles and by streaming ofmetal-free gas from the cosmic web, grow in the centers of the dark matterhalos. Partial turbulent homogenization on scales resolved in the simulation isobserved only in the densest clouds where the vortical time scales are shortenough to ensure true homogenization on subgrid scales. However, the abundancesin the clouds differ from the gross yields of the supernovae. Continuing thesimulations until the cloud have gone into gravitational collapse, we predictthat the abundances in second-generation stars will be deficient in theinnermost mass shells of the supernova (if only one has exploded) or in theejecta of the latest supernovae (when multiple have exploded). This indicatesthat hydrodynamics gives rise to biases complicating the identification ofnucleosynthetic sources in the chemical abundance spaces of the survivingstars.

Abundance anomalies in metal-poor stars from Population III supernova  ejecta hydrodynamics

  We present a simulation of the long-term evolution of a Population IIIsupernova remnant in a cosmological minihalo. Employing passive Lagrangiantracer particles, we investigate how chemical stratification and anisotropy inthe explosion can affect the abundances of the first low-mass, metal-enrichedstars. We find that reverse shock heating can leave the inner mass shells atentropies too high to cool, leading to carbon-enhancement in the re-collapsinggas. This hydrodynamic selection effect could explain the observed incidence ofcarbon-enhanced metal-poor (CEMP) stars at low metallicity. We further explorehow anisotropic ejecta distributions, recently seen in direct numericalsimulations of core-collapse explosions, may translate to abundances inmetal-poor stars. We find that some of the observed scatter in the PopulationII abundance ratios can be explained by an incomplete mixing of supernovaejecta, even in the case of only one contributing enrichment event. Wedemonstrate that the customary hypothesis of fully-mixed ejecta clearly failsif post-explosion hydrodynamics prefers the recycling of some nucleosyntheticproducts over others. Furthermore, to fully exploit the stellar-archaeologicalprogram of constraining the Pop III initial mass function from the observed PopII abundances, considering these hydrodynamical transport effects is crucial.We discuss applications to the rich chemical structure of ultra-faint dwarfsatellite galaxies, to be probed in unprecedented detail with upcomingspectroscopic surveys.

Inferring User Preferences by Probabilistic Logical Reasoning over  Social Networks

  We propose a framework for inferring the latent attitudes or preferences ofusers by performing probabilistic first-order logical reasoning over the socialnetwork graph. Our method answers questions about Twitter users like {\em Doesthis user like sushi?} or {\em Is this user a New York Knicks fan?} by buildinga probabilistic model that reasons over user attributes (the user's location orgender) and the social network (the user's friends and spouse), via inferenceslike homophily (I am more likely to like sushi if spouse or friends like sushi,I am more likely to like the Knicks if I live in New York). The algorithm usesdistant supervision, semi-supervised data harvesting and vector space models toextract user attributes (e.g. spouse, education, location) and preferences(likes and dislikes) from text. The extracted propositions are then fed into aprobabilistic reasoner (we investigate both Markov Logic and Probabilistic SoftLogic). Our experiments show that probabilistic logical reasoning significantlyimproves the performance on attribute and relation extraction, and alsoachieves an F-score of 0.791 at predicting a users likes or dislikes,significantly better than two strong baselines.

Learning multi-faceted representations of individuals from heterogeneous  evidence using neural networks

  Inferring latent attributes of people online is an important social computingtask, but requires integrating the many heterogeneous sources of informationavailable on the web. We propose learning individual representations of peopleusing neural nets to integrate rich linguistic and network evidence gatheredfrom social media. The algorithm is able to combine diverse cues, such as thetext a person writes, their attributes (e.g. gender, employer, education,location) and social relations to other people. We show that by integratingboth textual and network evidence, these representations offer improvedperformance at four important tasks in social media inference on Twitter:predicting (1) gender, (2) occupation, (3) location, and (4) friendships forusers. Our approach scales to large datasets and the learned representationscan be used as general features in and have the potential to benefit a largenumber of downstream tasks including link prediction, community detection, orprobabilistic reasoning over social networks.

Deep Reinforcement Learning for Dialogue Generation

  Recent neural models of dialogue generation offer great promise forgenerating responses for conversational agents, but tend to be shortsighted,predicting utterances one at a time while ignoring their influence on futureoutcomes. Modeling the future direction of a dialogue is crucial to generatingcoherent, interesting dialogues, a need which led traditional NLP models ofdialogue to draw on reinforcement learning. In this paper, we show how tointegrate these goals, applying deep reinforcement learning to model futurereward in chatbot dialogue. The model simulates dialogues between two virtualagents, using policy gradient methods to reward sequences that display threeuseful conversational properties: informativity (non-repetitive turns),coherence, and ease of answering (related to forward-looking function). Weevaluate our model on diversity, length as well as with human judges, showingthat the proposed algorithm generates more interactive responses and manages tofoster a more sustained conversation in dialogue simulation. This work marks afirst step towards learning a neural conversational model based on thelong-term success of dialogues.

Adversarial Learning for Neural Dialogue Generation

  In this paper, drawing intuition from the Turing test, we propose usingadversarial training for open-domain dialogue generation: the system is trainedto produce sequences that are indistinguishable from human-generated dialogueutterances. We cast the task as a reinforcement learning (RL) problem where wejointly train two systems, a generative model to produce response sequences,and a discriminator---analagous to the human evaluator in the Turing test--- todistinguish between the human-generated dialogues and the machine-generatedones. The outputs from the discriminator are then used as rewards for thegenerative model, pushing the system to generate dialogues that mostly resemblehuman dialogues.  In addition to adversarial training we describe a model for adversarial {\emevaluation} that uses success in fooling an adversary as a dialogue evaluationmetric, while avoiding a number of potential pitfalls. Experimental results onseveral metrics, including adversarial evaluation, demonstrate that theadversarially-trained system generates higher-quality responses than previousbaselines.

"i have a feeling trump will win..................": Forecasting Winners  and Losers from User Predictions on Twitter

  Social media users often make explicit predictions about upcoming events.Such statements vary in the degree of certainty the author expresses toward theoutcome:"Leonardo DiCaprio will win Best Actor" vs. "Leonardo DiCaprio may win"or "No way Leonardo wins!". Can popular beliefs on social media predict whowill win? To answer this question, we build a corpus of tweets annotated forveridicality on which we train a log-linear classifier that detects positiveveridicality with high precision. We then forecast uncertain outcomes using thewisdom of crowds, by aggregating users' explicit predictions. Our method forforecasting winners is fully automated, relying only on a set of contenders asinput. It requires no training data of past outcomes and outperforms sentimentand tweet volume baselines on a broad range of contest prediction tasks. Wefurther demonstrate how our approach can be used to measure the reliability ofindividual accounts' predictions and retrospectively identify surpriseoutcomes.

Generating More Interesting Responses in Neural Conversation Models with  Distributional Constraints

  Neural conversation models tend to generate safe, generic responses for mostinputs. This is due to the limitations of likelihood-based decoding objectivesin generation tasks with diverse outputs, such as conversation. To address thischallenge, we propose a simple yet effective approach for incorporating sideinformation in the form of distributional constraints over the generatedresponses. We propose two constraints that help generate more content richresponses that are based on a model of syntax and topics (Griffiths et al.,2005) and semantic similarity (Arora et al., 2016). We evaluate our approachagainst a variety of competitive baselines, using both automatic metrics andhuman judgments, showing that our proposed approach generates responses thatare much less generic without sacrificing plausibility. A working demo of ourcode can be found at https://github.com/abaheti95/DC-NeuralConversation.

Analyzing the Perceived Severity of Cybersecurity Threats Reported on  Social Media

  Breaking cybersecurity events are shared across a range of websites,including security blogs (FireEye, Kaspersky, etc.), in addition to socialmedia platforms such as Facebook and Twitter. In this paper, we investigatemethods to analyze the severity of cybersecurity threats based on the languagethat is used to describe them online. A corpus of 6,000 tweets describingsoftware vulnerabilities is annotated with authors' opinions toward theirseverity. We show that our corpus supports the development of automaticclassifiers with high precision for this task. Furthermore, we demonstrate thevalue of analyzing users' opinions about the severity of threats reportedonline as an early indicator of important software vulnerabilities. We presenta simple, yet effective method for linking software vulnerabilities reported intweets to Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs) in the NationalVulnerability Database (NVD). Using our predicted severity scores, we show thatit is possible to achieve a Precision@50 of 0.86 when forecasting high severityvulnerabilities, significantly outperforming a baseline that is based on tweetvolume. Finally we show how reports of severe vulnerabilities online arepredictive of real-world exploits.

Multicomponent Gas-Particle Flow and Heat/Mass Transfer Induced by a  Localized Laser Irradiation on a Urethane-Coated Stainless Steel Substrate

  A three-dimensional numerical simulation is conducted for a complex processin a laser-material system, which involves heat and mass transfer in acompressible gaseous phase and chemical reaction during laser irradiation on aurethane paint coated on a stainless steel substrate. A finite volume method(FVM) with a co-located grid mesh that discretizes the entire computationaldomain is employed to simulate the heating process. The results show that whenthe top surface of the paint reaches a threshold temperature of 560 K, thepolyurethane starts to decompose through chemical reaction. As a result,combustion products CO2, H2O and NO2 are produced and chromium (III) oxide,which serves as pigment in the paint, is ejected as solid parcels from thepaint into the gaseous domain. Variations of temperature, density and velocityat the center of the laser irradiation spot, and the concentrations of reactionreactant/products in the gaseous phase are presented and discussed, bycomparing six scenarios with different laser powers ranging from 2.5 kW to 15kW with an increment of 2.5 kW.

Measurement of the Wrong-Sign Decay D0 -> K+ pi- pi+ pi-

  A measurement of the rate for the "wrong-sign" decay D0 -> K+ pi- pi+ pi-relative to that for the "right-sign" decay D0 -> K- pi+ pi+ pi- is presented.Using 791 fb-1 of data collected with the Belle detector, we obtain a branchingfraction ratio of R_WS = [0.324 +- 0.008 (stat) +- 0.007 (sys)]%. Multiplyingthis ratio by the world average value for the branching fraction B(D0 -> K- pi+pi+ pi-) gives a branching fraction B(D0 -> K+ pi- pi+ pi-) = (2.61 +- 0.06+0.09 -0.08) x 10-4.

Search for the decay B0 -> phi gamma

  We have searched for the decay B0 -> phi gamma using the full Belle data setof 772 x 10^6 BBbar pairs collected at the Upsilon(4S) resonance with the Belledetector at the KEKB e+e- collider. No signal is observed, and we set an upperlimit on the branching fraction of B(B0 -> phi gamma) < 1.0 x 10^{-7} at 90%confidence level. This is the most stringent limit on this decay mode to date.

