Optimal Power Cost Management Using Stored Energy in Data Centers

  Since the electricity bill of a data center constitutes a significant portionof its overall operational costs, reducing this has become important. Weinvestigate cost reduction opportunities that arise by the use of uninterruptedpower supply (UPS) units as energy storage devices. This represents a deviationfrom the usual use of these devices as mere transitional fail-over mechanismsbetween utility and captive sources such as diesel generators. We consider theproblem of opportunistically using these devices to reduce the time averageelectric utility bill in a data center. Using the technique of Lyapunovoptimization, we develop an online control algorithm that can optimally exploitthese devices to minimize the time average cost. This algorithm operateswithout any knowledge of the statistics of the workload or electricity costprocesses, making it attractive in the presence of workload and pricinguncertainties. An interesting feature of our algorithm is that its deviationfrom optimality reduces as the storage capacity is increased. Our work opens upa new area in data center power management.

Predicting vehicular travel times by modeling heterogeneous influences  between arterial roads

  Predicting travel times of vehicles in urban settings is a useful andtangible quantity of interest in the context of intelligent transportationsystems. We address the problem of travel time prediction in arterial roadsusing data sampled from probe vehicles. There is only a limited literature onmethods using data input from probe vehicles. The spatio-temporal dependenciescaptured by existing data driven approaches are either too detailed or verysimplistic. We strike a balance of the existing data driven approaches toaccount for varying degrees of influence a given road may experience from itsneighbors, while controlling the number of parameters to be learnt.Specifically, we use a NoisyOR conditional probability distribution (CPD) inconjunction with a dynamic bayesian network (DBN) to model state transitions ofvarious roads. We propose an efficient algorithm to learn model parameters. Wepropose an algorithm for predicting travel times on trips of arbitrarydurations. Using synthetic and real world data traces we demonstrate thesuperior performance of the proposed method under different traffic conditions.

Data Center Cost Optimization Via Workload Modulation Under Real-World  Electricity Pricing

  We formulate optimization problems to study how data centers might modulatetheir power demands for cost-effective operation taking into account three keycomplex features exhibited by real-world electricity pricing schemes: (i)time-varying prices (e.g., time-of-day pricing, spot pricing, or higher energyprices during coincident peaks) and (ii) separate charge for peak powerconsumption. Our focus is on demand modulation at the granularity of an entiredata center or a large part of it. For computational tractability reasons, wework with a fluid model for power demands which we imagine can be modulatedusing two abstract knobs of demand dropping and demand delaying (each with itsassociated penalties or costs). Given many data center workloads and electricprices can be effectively predicted using statistical modeling techniques, wedevise a stochastic dynamic program (SDP) that can leverage such predictivemodels. Since the SDP can be computationally infeasible in many real platforms,we devise approximations for it. We also devise fully online algorithms thatmight be useful for scenarios with poor power demand or utility pricepredictability. For one of our online algorithms, we prove a competitive ratioof 2-1/n. Finally, using empirical evaluation with both real-world andsynthetic power demands and real-world prices, we demonstrate the efficacy ofour techniques. As two salient empirically-gained insights: (i) demand delayingis more effective than demand dropping regarding to peak shaving (e.g., 10.74%cost saving with only delaying vs. 1.45% with only dropping for Googleworkload) and (ii) workloads tend to have different cost saving potential undervarious electricity tariffs (e.g., 16.97% cost saving under peak-based tariffvs. 1.55% under time-varying pricing tariff for Facebook workload).

