Approximating the Permanent with Belief Propagation

  This work describes a method of approximating matrix permanents efficientlyusing belief propagation. We formulate a probability distribution whosepartition function is exactly the permanent, then use Bethe free energy toapproximate this partition function. After deriving some speedups to standardbelief propagation, the resulting algorithm requires $(n^2)$ time periteration. Finally, we demonstrate the advantages of using this approximation.

ANA at SemEval-2019 Task 3: Contextual Emotion detection in  Conversations through hierarchical LSTMs and BERT

  This paper describes the system submitted by ANA Team for the SemEval-2019Task 3: EmoContext. We propose a novel Hierarchical LSTMs for ContextualEmotion Detection (HRLCE) model. It classifies the emotion of an utterancegiven its conversational context. The results show that, in this task, ourHRCLE outperforms the most recent state-of-the-art text classificationframework: BERT. We combine the results generated by BERT and HRCLE to achievean overall score of 0.7709 which ranked 5th on the final leader board of thecompetition among 165 Teams.

Utilizing BERT for Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis via Constructing  Auxiliary Sentence

  Aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA), which aims to identify fine-grainedopinion polarity towards a specific aspect, is a challenging subtask ofsentiment analysis (SA). In this paper, we construct an auxiliary sentence fromthe aspect and convert ABSA to a sentence-pair classification task, such asquestion answering (QA) and natural language inference (NLI). We fine-tune thepre-trained model from BERT and achieve new state-of-the-art results onSentiHood and SemEval-2014 Task 4 datasets.

Best-Choice Edge Grafting for Efficient Structure Learning of Markov  Random Fields

  Incremental methods for structure learning of pairwise Markov random fields(MRFs), such as grafting, improve scalability by avoiding inference over theentire feature space in each optimization step. Instead, inference is performedover an incrementally grown active set of features. In this paper, we addresskey computational bottlenecks that current incremental techniques still sufferby introducing best-choice edge grafting, an incremental, structured methodthat activates edges as groups of features in a streaming setting. The methoduses a reservoir of edges that satisfy an activation condition, approximatingthe search for the optimal edge to activate. It also reorganizes the searchspace using search-history and structure heuristics. Experiments show asignificant speedup for structure learning and a controllable trade-off betweenthe speed and quality of learning.

Beyond Parity: Fairness Objectives for Collaborative Filtering

  We study fairness in collaborative-filtering recommender systems, which aresensitive to discrimination that exists in historical data. Biased data canlead collaborative-filtering methods to make unfair predictions for users fromminority groups. We identify the insufficiency of existing fairness metrics andpropose four new metrics that address different forms of unfairness. Thesefairness metrics can be optimized by adding fairness terms to the learningobjective. Experiments on synthetic and real data show that our new metrics canbetter measure fairness than the baseline, and that the fairness objectiveseffectively help reduce unfairness.

New Fairness Metrics for Recommendation that Embrace Differences

  We study fairness in collaborative-filtering recommender systems, which aresensitive to discrimination that exists in historical data. Biased data canlead collaborative filtering methods to make unfair predictions againstminority groups of users. We identify the insufficiency of existing fairnessmetrics and propose four new metrics that address different forms ofunfairness. These fairness metrics can be optimized by adding fairness terms tothe learning objective. Experiments on synthetic and real data show that ournew metrics can better measure fairness than the baseline, and that thefairness objectives effectively help reduce unfairness.

Adversarial Label Learning

  We consider the task of training classifiers without labels. We propose aweakly supervised method---adversarial label learning---that trains classifiersto perform well against an adversary that chooses labels for training data. Theweak supervision constrains what labels the adversary can choose. The methodtherefore minimizes an upper bound of the classifier's error rate usingprojected primal-dual subgradient descent. Minimizing this bound protectsagainst bias and dependencies in the weak supervision. Experiments on threereal datasets show that our method can train without labels and outperformsother approaches for weakly supervised learning.

Toward Fast and Accurate Neural Chinese Word Segmentation with  Multi-Criteria Learning

  The ambiguous annotation criteria bring into the divergence of Chinese WordSegmentation (CWS) datasets with various granularities. Multi-criteria learningleverage the annotation style of individual datasets and mine their commonbasic knowledge. In this paper, we proposed a domain adaptive segmenter tocapture diverse criteria of datasets. Our model is based on BidirectionalEncoder Representations from Transformers (BERT), which is responsible forintroducing external knowledge. We also optimize its computational efficiencyvia model pruning, quantization, and compiler optimization. Experiments showthat our segmenter outperforms the previous results on 10 CWS datasets and isfaster than the previous state-of-the-art Bi-LSTM-CRF model.

Impedance matching and emission properties of optical antennas in a  nanophotonic circuit

  An experimentally realizable prototype nanophotonic circuit consisting of areceiving and an emitting nano antenna connected by a two-wire opticaltransmission line is studied using finite-difference time- and frequency-domainsimulations. To optimize the coupling between nanophotonic circuit elements weapply impedance matching concepts in analogy to radio frequency technology. Weshow that the degree of impedance matching, and in particular the impedance ofthe transmitting nano antenna, can be inferred from the experimentallyaccessible standing wave pattern on the transmission line. We demonstrate thepossibility of matching the nano antenna impedance to the transmission linecharacteristic impedance by variations of the antenna length and widthrealizable by modern microfabrication techniques. The radiation efficiency ofthe transmitting antenna also depends on its geometry but is independent of thedegree of impedance matching. Our systems approach to nanophotonics providesthe basis for realizing general nanophotonic circuits and a large variety ofderived novel devices.

Mode imaging and selection in strongly coupled nanoantennas

  The number of eigenmodes in plasmonic nanostructures increases withcomplexity due to mode hybridization, raising the need for efficient modecharacterization and selection. Here we experimentally demonstrate directimaging and selective excitation of the bonding and antibonding plasmon mode insymmetric dipole nanoantennas using confocal two-photon photoluminescencemapping. Excitation of a high-quality-factor antibonding resonance manifestsitself as a two-lobed pattern instead of the single spot observed for the broadbonding resonance, in accordance with numerical simulations. The two-lobedpattern is observed due to the fact that excitation of the antibonding mode isforbidden for symmetric excitation at the feedgap, while concomitantly the modeenergy splitting is large enough to suppress excitation of the bonding mode.The controlled excitation of modes in strongly coupled plasmonic nanostructuresis mandatory for efficient sensors, in coherent control as well as forimplementing well-defined functionalities in complex plasmonic devices.

Nanoantennas for visible and infrared radiation

  Nanoantennas for visible and infrared radiation can strongly enhance theinteraction of light with nanoscale matter by their ability to efficiently linkpropagating and spatially localized optical fields. This ability unlocks anenormous potential for applications ranging from nanoscale optical microscopyand spectroscopy over solar energy conversion, integrated opticalnanocircuitry, opto-electronics and density-ofstates engineering toultra-sensing as well as enhancement of optical nonlinearities. Here we reviewthe current understanding of optical antennas based on the background of bothwell-developed radiowave antenna engineering and the emerging field ofplasmonics. In particular, we address the plasmonic behavior that emerges dueto the very high optical frequencies involved and the limitations in the choiceof antenna materials and geometrical parameters imposed by nanofabrication.Finally, we give a brief account of the current status of the field and themajor established and emerging lines of investigation in this vivid area ofresearch.

Atomic-scale confinement of optical fields

  In the presence of matter there is no fundamental limit preventingconfinement of visible light even down to atomic scales. Achieving suchconfinement and the corresponding intensity enhancement inevitably requiressimultaneous control over atomic-scale details of material structures and overthe optical modes that such structures support. By means of self-assembly wehave obtained side-by-side aligned gold nanorod dimers with robustatomically-defined gaps reaching below 0.5 nm. The existence ofatomically-confined light fields in these gaps is demonstrated by observingextreme Coulomb splitting of corresponding symmetric and anti-symmetric dimereigenmodes of more than 800 meV in white-light scattering experiments. Ourresults open new perspectives for atomically-resolved spectroscopic imaging,deeply nonlinear optics, ultra-sensing, cavity optomechanics as well as for therealization of novel quantum-optical devices.

Graph-based Generalization Bounds for Learning Binary Relations

  We investigate the generalizability of learned binary relations: functionsthat map pairs of instances to a logical indicator. This problem hasapplication in numerous areas of machine learning, such as ranking, entityresolution and link prediction. Our learning framework incorporates an examplelabeler that, given a sequence $X$ of $n$ instances and a desired training size$m$, subsamples $m$ pairs from $X \times X$ without replacement. The challengein analyzing this learning scenario is that pairwise combinations of randomvariables are inherently dependent, which prevents us from using traditionallearning-theoretic arguments. We present a unified, graph-based analysis, whichallows us to analyze this dependence using well-known graph identities. We arethen able to bound the generalization error of learned binary relations usingRademacher complexity and algorithmic stability. The rate of uniformconvergence is partially determined by the labeler's subsampling process. Wethus examine how various assumptions about subsampling affect generalization;under a natural random subsampling process, our bounds guarantee$\tilde{O}(1/\sqrt{n})$ uniform convergence.

Multi-relational Learning Using Weighted Tensor Decomposition with  Modular Loss

  We propose a modular framework for multi-relational learning via tensordecomposition. In our learning setting, the training data contains multipletypes of relationships among a set of objects, which we represent by a sparsethree-mode tensor. The goal is to predict the values of the missing entries. Todo so, we model each relationship as a function of a linear combination oflatent factors. We learn this latent representation by computing a low-ranktensor decomposition, using quasi-Newton optimization of a weighted objectivefunction. Sparsity in the observed data is captured by the weighted objective,leading to improved accuracy when training data is limited. Exploiting sparsityalso improves efficiency, potentially up to an order of magnitude overunweighted approaches. In addition, our framework accommodates arbitrarycombinations of smooth, task-specific loss functions, making it better suitedfor learning different types of relations. For the typical cases of real-valuedfunctions and binary relations, we propose several loss functions and derivethe associated parameter gradients. We evaluate our method on synthetic andreal data, showing significant improvements in both accuracy and scalabilityover related factorization techniques.

Multimode plasmon excitation and in-situ analysis in top-down fabricated  plasmonic nanocircuits

  We experimentally demonstrate synthesis and in-situ analysis of multimodeplasmonic excitations in two-wire transmission lines supporting a symmetric andan antisymmetric eigenmode. To this end we irradiate an incoupling antenna witha diffraction-limited excitation spot exploiting a polarization- andposition-dependent excitation efficiency. Modal analysis is performed byrecording the far-field emission of two mode-specific spatially separatedemission spots at the far end of the transmission line. To illustrate the powerof the approach we selectively determine the group velocities of symmetric andantisymmetric contributions of a multimode ultrafast plasmon pulse.

A Hypergraph-Partitioned Vertex Programming Approach for Large-scale  Consensus Optimization

  In modern data science problems, techniques for extracting value from bigdata require performing large-scale optimization over heterogenous, irregularlystructured data. Much of this data is best represented as multi-relationalgraphs, making vertex programming abstractions such as those of Pregel andGraphLab ideal fits for modern large-scale data analysis. In this paper, wedescribe a vertex-programming implementation of a popular consensusoptimization technique known as the alternating direction of multipliers(ADMM). ADMM consensus optimization allows elegant solution of complexobjectives such as inference in rich probabilistic models. We also introduce anovel hypergraph partitioning technique that improves over state-of-the-artpartitioning techniques for vertex programming and significantly reduces thecommunication cost by reducing the number of replicated nodes up to an order ofmagnitude. We implemented our algorithm in GraphLab and measure scalingperformance on a variety of realistic bipartite graph distributions and a largesynthetic voter-opinion analysis application. In our experiments, we are ableto achieve a 50% improvement in runtime over the current state-of-the-artGraphLab partitioning scheme.

Hinge-loss Markov Random Fields: Convex Inference for Structured  Prediction

  Graphical models for structured domains are powerful tools, but thecomputational complexities of combinatorial prediction spaces can forcerestrictions on models, or require approximate inference in order to betractable. Instead of working in a combinatorial space, we use hinge-lossMarkov random fields (HL-MRFs), an expressive class of graphical models withlog-concave density functions over continuous variables, which can representconfidences in discrete predictions. This paper demonstrates that HL-MRFs aregeneral tools for fast and accurate structured prediction. We introduce thefirst inference algorithm that is both scalable and applicable to the fullclass of HL-MRFs, and show how to train HL-MRFs with several learningalgorithms. Our experiments show that HL-MRFs match or surpass the predictiveperformance of state-of-the-art methods, including discrete models, in fourapplication domains.

Cyberbullying Identification Using Participant-Vocabulary Consistency

  With the rise of social media, people can now form relationships andcommunities easily regardless of location, race, ethnicity, or gender. However,the power of social media simultaneously enables harmful online behavior suchas harassment and bullying. Cyberbullying is a serious social problem, makingit an important topic in social network analysis. Machine learning methods canpotentially help provide better understanding of this phenomenon, but they mustaddress several key challenges: the rapidly changing vocabulary involved incyber- bullying, the role of social network structure, and the scale of thedata. In this study, we propose a model that simultaneously discoversinstigators and victims of bullying as well as new bullying vocabulary bystarting with a corpus of social interactions and a seed dictionary of bullyingindicators. We formulate an objective function based on participant-vocabularyconsistency. We evaluate this approach on Twitter and Ask.fm data sets and showthat the proposed method can detect new bullying vocabulary as well as victimsand bullies.

Recurrent Collective Classification

  We propose a new method for training iterative collective classifiers forlabeling nodes in network data. The iterative classification algorithm (ICA) isa canonical method for incorporating relational information intoclassification. Yet, existing methods for training ICA models rely on theassumption that relational features reflect the true labels of the nodes. Thisunrealistic assumption introduces a bias that is inconsistent with the actualprediction algorithm. In this paper, we introduce recurrent collectiveclassification (RCC), a variant of ICA analogous to recurrent neural networkprediction. RCC accommodates any differentiable local classifier and relationalfeature functions. We provide gradient-based strategies for optimizing overmodel parameters to more directly minimize the loss function. In ourexperiments, this direct loss minimization translates to improved accuracy androbustness on real network data. We demonstrate the robustness of RCC insettings where local classification is very noisy, settings that areparticularly challenging for ICA.

Block Belief Propagation for Parameter Learning in Markov Random Fields

  Traditional learning methods for training Markov random fields require doinginference over all variables to compute the likelihood gradient. The iterationcomplexity for those methods therefore scales with the size of the graphicalmodels. In this paper, we propose \emph{block belief propagation learning}(BBPL), which uses block-coordinate updates of approximate marginals to computeapproximate gradients, removing the need to compute inference on the entiregraphical model. Thus, the iteration complexity of BBPL does not scale with thesize of the graphs. We prove that the method converges to the same solution asthat obtained by using full inference per iteration, despite theseapproximations, and we empirically demonstrate its scalability improvementsover standard training methods.

SDNet: Contextualized Attention-based Deep Network for Conversational  Question Answering

  Conversational question answering (CQA) is a novel QA task that requiresunderstanding of dialogue context. Different from traditional single-turnmachine reading comprehension (MRC) tasks, CQA includes passage comprehension,coreference resolution, and contextual understanding. In this paper, we proposean innovated contextualized attention-based deep neural network, SDNet, to fusecontext into traditional MRC models. Our model leverages both inter-attentionand self-attention to comprehend conversation context and extract relevantinformation from passage. Furthermore, we demonstrated a novel method tointegrate the latest BERT contextual model. Empirical results show theeffectiveness of our model, which sets the new state of the art result in CoQAleaderboard, outperforming the previous best model by 1.6% F1. Our ensemblemodel further improves the result by 2.7% F1.

Atomically flat single-crystalline gold nanostructures for plasmonic  nanocircuitry

  Deep subwavelength integration of high-definition plasmonic nanostructures isof key importance for the development of future optical nanocircuitry forhigh-speed communication, quantum computation and lab-on-a-chip applications.So far the experimental realization of proposed extended plasmonic networksconsisting of multiple functional elements remains challenging, mainly due tothe multi-crystallinity of commonly used thermally evaporated gold layers.Resulting structural imperfections in individual circuit elements willdrastically reduce the yield of functional integrated nanocircuits. Here wedemonstrate the use of very large (>100 micron^2) but thin (<80 nm) chemicallygrown single-crystalline gold flakes, which, after immobilization, serve as anideal basis for focused-ion beam milling and other top-down nanofabricationtechniques on any desired substrate. Using this methodology we obtainhigh-definition ultrasmooth gold nanostructures with superior opticalproperties and reproducible nano-sized features over micrometer length scales.Our approach provides a possible solution to overcome the current fabricationbottleneck and to realize high-definition plasmonic nanocircuitry.

'Beating the news' with EMBERS: Forecasting Civil Unrest using Open  Source Indicators

  We describe the design, implementation, and evaluation of EMBERS, anautomated, 24x7 continuous system for forecasting civil unrest across 10countries of Latin America using open source indicators such as tweets, newssources, blogs, economic indicators, and other data sources. Unlikeretrospective studies, EMBERS has been making forecasts into the future sinceNov 2012 which have been (and continue to be) evaluated by an independent T&Eteam (MITRE). Of note, EMBERS has successfully forecast the uptick and downtickof incidents during the June 2013 protests in Brazil. We outline the systemarchitecture of EMBERS, individual models that leverage specific data sources,and a fusion and suppression engine that supports trading off specificevaluation criteria. EMBERS also provides an audit trail interface that enablesthe investigation of why specific predictions were made along with the datautilized for forecasting. Through numerous evaluations, we demonstrate thesuperiority of EMBERS over baserate methods and its capability to forecastsignificant societal happenings.

Hinge-Loss Markov Random Fields and Probabilistic Soft Logic

  A fundamental challenge in developing high-impact machine learningtechnologies is balancing the need to model rich, structured domains with theability to scale to big data. Many important problem areas are both richlystructured and large scale, from social and biological networks, to knowledgegraphs and the Web, to images, video, and natural language. In this paper, weintroduce two new formalisms for modeling structured data, and show that theycan both capture rich structure and scale to big data. The first, hinge-lossMarkov random fields (HL-MRFs), is a new kind of probabilistic graphical modelthat generalizes different approaches to convex inference. We unite threeapproaches from the randomized algorithms, probabilistic graphical models, andfuzzy logic communities, showing that all three lead to the same inferenceobjective. We then define HL-MRFs by generalizing this unified objective. Thesecond new formalism, probabilistic soft logic (PSL), is a probabilisticprogramming language that makes HL-MRFs easy to define using a syntax based onfirst-order logic. We introduce an algorithm for inferring most-probablevariable assignments (MAP inference) that is much more scalable thangeneral-purpose convex optimization methods, because it uses message passing totake advantage of sparse dependency structures. We then show how to learn theparameters of HL-MRFs. The learned HL-MRFs are as accurate as analogousdiscrete models, but much more scalable. Together, these algorithms enableHL-MRFs and PSL to model rich, structured data at scales not previouslypossible.

