Critical Relaxation and Critical Exponents

  Dynamic relaxation of the XY model and fully frustrated XY model quenchedfrom an initial ordered state to the critical temperature or below isinvestigated with Monte Carlo methods. Universal power law scaling behaviour isobserved. The dynamic critical exponent $z$ and the static exponent $\eta$ areextracted from the time-dependent Binder cumulant and magnetization. Theresults are competitive to those measured with traditional methods.

Lorentz Force Correction and Radiation Frequency Property of Charged  Particles in Magnetic Dipole

  By concern of compression of charge density field, the corrected Lorentzforce formula and consequent inference is presented. And further radiationfrequency property of an individual charge density field in magnetic dipole isanalyzed respectively for radiant property of the charged particle and theemitted electromagnetic wave transfer property between the moving radiantsource and observer. As results, the behavior and radiation frequency propertyof the electron beam in magnetic dipole is interpreted upon the individual'sbehavior and property. At final, the potential application is put forward forwider interest.

Roots of Amplitudes

  In a recent paper [arXiv:1106.0166], boundary contributions in BCFW recursionrelations have been related to roots of amplitudes. In this paper, we makeseveral analyses regarding to this problem. Firstly, we use different ways tore-derive boundary BCFW recursion relations given in [arXiv:1106.0166].Secondly, we generalize factorization limits to z-dependent ones, whereinformation of roots is more transparent. Then, we demon- strate our analysiswith several examples. In general, relations from factorization limits cannotguarantee to find explicit expressions for roots.

Realizing bending waveguides with anisotropic epsilon-near-zero  metamaterials

  We study metamaterials with an anisotropic effective permittivity tensor inwhich one component is near zero. We find that such an anisotropic metamaterialcan be used to control wave propagation and construct almost perfect bendingwaveguides with a high transmission rate (>95%). This interesting effectoriginates in the power flow redistribution by the surface waves on the inputand output interfaces, which smoothly matches with the propagating modes insidethe metamaterial waveguide. We also find that waves in such anisotropicepsilon-near-zero materials can be reflected by small-sized perfect magneticconductor defects. Numerical calculations have been performed to confirm theabove effects.

Multi-level Resistive Switching Characteristics of W/Co:TiO2/FTO  Structures

  In the present work, multi-level resistive switching (RS) in W/Co:TiO2/FTOstructures induced by a multi-mixed mechanism was studied. It was found thatthe devices could be reproducibly programmed into three nonvolatile resistancestates. And the directly switching between any resistance states was realized.This increases the operation speed and lowers the complexity of control circuitof multi-state nonvolatile memory.

On the derivations of lattice Boltzmann evolution equation

  A comparative analysis on the popular schemes for evaluating evolutionequation in lattice Boltzmann method (LBM) is presented in this paper. Itincludes two classical characteristic-line schemes, Boesh-Karlin and He-Luoscheme, and a author-proposed scheme, Taylor-expansion scheme, originating fromthe extension of He-Luo scheme. We detailly discuss the mathematical mechanismand the equilibrium distribution evolution behind them. By analyzing theconflict between prediction and derivation, we address the preconditions forthese schemes. At the end, we conclude their pros and cons and suggest scheme'sapplicable scene based on their derivation procedure and further developmentcapacity.

Towards Imperceptible and Robust Adversarial Example Attacks against  Neural Networks

  Machine learning systems based on deep neural networks, being able to producestate-of-the-art results on various perception tasks, have gained mainstreamadoption in many applications. However, they are shown to be vulnerable toadversarial example attack, which generates malicious output by adding slightperturbations to the input. Previous adversarial example crafting methods,however, use simple metrics to evaluate the distances between the originalexamples and the adversarial ones, which could be easily detected by humaneyes. In addition, these attacks are often not robust due to the inevitablenoises and deviation in the physical world. In this work, we present a newadversarial example attack crafting method, which takes the human perceptualsystem into consideration and maximizes the noise tolerance of the craftedadversarial example. Experimental results demonstrate the efficacy of theproposed technique.

On Configurable Defense against Adversarial Example Attacks

  Machine learning systems based on deep neural networks (DNNs) have gainedmainstream adoption in many applications. Recently, however, DNNs are shown tobe vulnerable to adversarial example attacks with slight perturbations on theinputs. Existing defense mechanisms against such attacks try to improve theoverall robustness of the system, but they do not differentiate differenttargeted attacks even though the corresponding impacts may vary significantly.To tackle this problem, we propose a novel configurable defense mechanism inthis work, wherein we are able to flexibly tune the robustness of the systemagainst different targeted attacks to satisfy application requirements. This isachieved by refining the DNN loss function with an attack sensitive matrix torepresent the impacts of different targeted attacks. Experimental results onCIFAR-10 and GTSRB data sets demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed solution.

Short-time Dynamic Behaviour of Critical XY Systems

  Using Monte Carlo methods, the short-time dynamic scaling behaviour oftwo-dimensional critical XY systems is investigated. Our results for the XYmodel show that there exists universal scaling behaviour already in theshort-time regime, but the values of the dynamic exponent $z$ differ fordifferent initial conditions. For the fully frustrated XY model, power lawscaling behaviour is also observed in the short-time regime.  However, a violation of the standard scaling relation between the exponentsis detected.

The Critical Exponent $θ'$ in Spin Glasses

  Short-time dynamic scaling behavior of the 3D $\pm J$ Ising spin glass isstudied by Monte Carlo methods. Starting the replicas with independent initialconfigurations with a small pseudo magnetization, the dynamic evolution of theoverlap q(t) between two replicas is measured. The initial increase of theoverlap q(t) is observed and the corresponding exponent $\theta'$ is obtained.  From the scaling relation $\lambda =d/z-\theta'$, the dynamic exponent z isestimated.

Monte Carlo Simulations of Short-time Critical Dynamics with a Conserved  Quantity

  With Monte Carlo simulations, we investigate short-time critical dynamics ofthe three-dimensional anti-ferromagnetic Ising model with a globally conservedmagnetization $m_s$ (not the order parameter). From the power law behavior ofthe staggered magnetization (the order parameter), its second moment and theauto-correlation, we determine all static and dynamic critical exponents aswell as the critical temperature. The universality class of $m_s=0$ is the sameas that without a conserved quantity, but the universality class of non-zero$m_s$ is different.

SINAP surface preparation processing for 500MHz superconducting cavity

  This paper illustrates the design, fabrication and experiment results ofsurface preparation system for 500MHz superconducting cavity at ShanghaiInstitute of Applied Physic (SINAP). The SINAP established a set of clean room,buffered chemical polishing equipment, and high pressure ultra-pure waterrinsing facility. The whole surface preparation procedure has been operatedsuccessfully and verified by the successful vertical tests of 500MHz singlecell superconducting cavity.

Feynman Rules of Higher-order Poles in CHY Construction

  In this paper, we generalize the integration rules for scattering equationsto situations where higher-order poles are present. We describe the strategy todeduce the Feynman rules of higher-order poles from known analytic results ofsimple CHY-integrands, and propose the Feynman rules for single double pole andtriple pole as well as duplex-double pole and triplex-double pole structures.We demonstrate the validation and strength of these rules by ample non-trivialexamples.

Note on recursion relations for the $\mathcal{Q}$-cut representation

  In this note, we study the $\mathcal{Q}$-cut representation by combining itwith BCFW deformation. As a consequence, the one-loop integrand is expressed interms of a recursion relation, i.e., $n$-point one-loop integrand isconstructed using tree-level amplitudes and $m$-point one-loop integrands with$m\leq n-1$. By giving explicit examples, we show that the integrand from therecursion relation is equivalent to that from Feynman diagrams or the original$\mathcal{Q}$-cut construction, up to scale free terms.

Cyber-Physical Systems Security -- A Survey

  With the exponential growth of cyber-physical systems (CPS), new securitychallenges have emerged. Various vulnerabilities, threats, attacks, andcontrols have been introduced for the new generation of CPS. However, therelack a systematic study of CPS security issues. In particular, theheterogeneity of CPS components and the diversity of CPS systems have made itvery difficult to study the problem with one generalized model.  In this paper, we capture and systematize existing research on CPS securityunder a unified framework. The framework consists of three orthogonalcoordinates: (1) from the \emph{security} perspective, we follow the well-knowntaxonomy of threats, vulnerabilities, attacks and controls; (2)from the\emph{CPS components} perspective, we focus on cyber, physical, andcyber-physical components; and (3) from the \emph{CPS systems} perspective, weexplore general CPS features as well as representative systems (e.g., smartgrids, medical CPS and smart cars). The model can be both abstract to showgeneral interactions of a CPS application and specific to capture any detailswhen needed. By doing so, we aim to build a model that is abstract enough to beapplicable to various heterogeneous CPS applications; and to gain a modularview of the tightly coupled CPS components. Such abstract decoupling makes itpossible to gain a systematic understanding of CPS security, and to highlightthe potential sources of attacks and ways of protection.

Extensions of Erdős-Gallai Theorem and Luo's Theorem with  Applications

  The famous Erd\H{o}s-Gallai Theorem on the Tur\'an number of paths statesthat every graph with $n$ vertices and $m$ edges contains a path with at least$\frac{2m}{n}$ edges. In this note, we first establish a simple but novelextension of the Erd\H{o}s-Gallai Theorem by proving that every graph $G$contains a path with at least $\frac{(s+1)N_{s+1}(G)}{N_{s}(G)}+s-1$ edges,where $N_j(G)$ denotes the number of $j$-cliques in $G$ for $1\leqj\leq\omega(G)$. We also construct a family of graphs which shows our extensionimproves the estimate given by Erd\H{o}s-Gallai Theorem. Among applications, weshow, for example, that the main results of \cite{L17}, which are on themaximum possible number of $s$-cliques in an $n$-vertex graph without a pathwith $l$ vertices (and without cycles of length at least $c$), can be easilydeduced from this extension. Indeed, to prove these results, Luo \cite{L17}generalized a classical theorem of Kopylov and established a tight upper boundon the number of $s$-cliques in an $n$-vertex 2-connected graph withcircumference less than $c$. We prove a similar result for an $n$-vertex2-connected graph with circumference less than $c$ and large minimum degree. Weconclude this paper with an application of our results to a problem fromspectral extremal graph theory on consecutive lengths of cycles in graphs.

Doping Effects on the two-dimensional Spin Dimer Compound  $SrCu_2(BO_3)_2$

  A series of compounds M$_{0.1}$Sr$_{0.9}$Cu$_2$(BO$_3$)$_2$ with Srsubstituted by M=Al, La, Na and Y were prepared by solid state reaction. XRDanalysis showed that these doping compounds are isostructural toSrCu$_2$(BO$_3$)$_2$. The magnetic susceptibility from 1.9K to 300K in anapplied magnetic field of 1.0T and the specific heat from 1.9K to 25K inapplied fields up to 14T were measured. The spin gap is deduced from the lowtemperature susceptibility as well as the specific heat. It is found that thespin gap is strongly suppressed by magnetic fields. No superconductivity isobserved in all four samples.

In-plane substitution effect on the magnetic properties of  two-dimensional Spin-gap system SrCu$_2$(BO$_3$)$_2$

  A series of in-plane substituted compounds, including Cu-site(SrZn$_x$Cu$_{2-x}$(BO$_3$)$_2$), and B-site(SrCu$_2$(Si$_x$B$_{1-x}$O$_3$)$_2$) substitution, were synthesized by solidstate reaction. X-ray diffraction measurements reveal that these compounds aresingle-phase materials and their in-plane lattice parameter dependssystematically on the substituting content $x$. The magnetic susceptibility indifferent magnetic fields, the magnetization at different temperatures, and theresistivity at room temperature were measured, respectively. It is found thatthe spin gap deduced from the magnetic susceptibility measurements decreaseswith increasing of $x$ in both Cu- and B-site substitution. Nosuperconductivity was found in these substituted compounds.

Birthrates and delay times of Type Ia supernovae

  Type Ia supernovae (SNe Ia) play an important role in diverse areas ofastrophysics, from the chemical evolution of galaxies to observationalcosmology. However, the nature of the progenitors of SNe Ia is still unclear.In this paper, according to a detailed binary population synthesis study, weobtained SN Ia birthrates and delay times from different progenitor models, andcompared them with observations. We find that the Galactic SN Ia birthrate fromthe double-degenerate (DD) model is close to those inferred from observations,while the birthrate from the single-degenerate (SD) model accounts for onlyabout 1/2-2/3 of the observations. If a single starburst is assumed, thedistribution of the delay times of SNe Ia from the SD model is a weakbimodality, where the WD + He channel contributes to the SNe Ia with delaytimes shorter than 100Myr, and the WD + MS and WD + RG channels to those withage longer than 1Gyr.

An Introduction to On-shell Recursion Relations

  This article provides an introduction to on-shell recursion relations forcalculations of tree-level amplitudes. Starting with the basics, such as spinornotations and color decompositions, we expose analytic properties ofgauge-boson amplitudes, BCFW-deformations, the large $z$-behavior ofamplitudes, and on-shell recursion relations of gluons. We discuss furtherdevelopments of on-shell recursion relations, including generalization to otherquantum field theories, supersymmetric theories in particular, recursionrelations for off-shell currents, recursion relation with nonzero boundarycontributions, bonus relations, relations for rational parts of one-loopamplitudes, recursion relations in 3D and a proof of CSW rules. Finally, wepresent samples of applications, including solutions of split helicityamplitudes and of N= 4 SYM theories, consequences of consistent conditionsunder recursion relation, Kleiss-Kuijf (KK) and Bern-Carrasco-Johansson (BCJ)relations for color-ordered gluon tree amplitudes, Kawai-Lewellen-Tye (KLT)relations.

Distributed Compressive Sensing Based Doubly Selective Channel  Estimation for Large-Scale MIMO Systems

  Doubly selective (DS) channel estimation in largescale multiple-inputmultiple-output (MIMO) systems is a challenging problem due to the requirementof unaffordable pilot overheads and prohibitive complexity. In this paper, wepropose a novel distributed compressive sensing (DCS) based channel estimationscheme to solve this problem. In the scheme, we introduce the basis expansionmodel (BEM) to reduce the required channel coefficients and pilot overheads.And due to the common sparsity of all the transmit-receive antenna pairs indelay domain, we estimate the BEM coefficients by considering the DCSframework, which has a simple linear structure with low complexity. Furthermore, a linear smoothing method is proposed to improve the estimation accuracy.Finally, we conduct various simulations to verify the validity of the proposedscheme and demonstrate the performance gains of the proposed scheme comparedwith conventional schemes.

Multiple Images Recovery Using a Single Affine Transformation

  In many real-world applications, image data often come with noises,corruptions or large errors. One approach to deal with noise image data is touse data recovery techniques which aim to recover the true uncorrupted signalsfrom the observed noise images. In this paper, we first introduce a novelcorruption recovery transformation (CRT) model which aims to recover multiple(or a collection of) corrupted images using a single affine transformation.Then, we show that the introduced CRT can be efficiently constructed throughlearning from training data. Once CRT is learned, we can recover the truesignals from the new incoming/test corrupted images explicitly. As anapplication, we apply our CRT to image recognition task. Experimental resultson six image datasets demonstrate that the proposed CRT model is effective inrecovering noise image data and thus leads to better recognition results.

Temporal Coherent and Graph Optimized Manifold Ranking for Visual  Tracking

  Recently, weighted patch representation has been widely studied foralleviating the impact of background information included in bounding box toimprove visual tracking results. However, existing weighted patchrepresentation models generally exploit spatial structure information amongpatches in each frame separately which ignore (1) unary featureof each patchand (2) temporal correlation among patches in different frames. To address thisproblem, we propose a novel unified temporal coherence and graph optimizedranking model for weighted patch representation in visual tracking problem.There are three main contributions of this paper. First, we propose to employ aflexible graph ranking for patch weight computation which exploits bothstructure information among patches and unary feature of each patchsimultaneously. Second, we propose a new more discriminative ranking model byfurther considering the temporal correlation among patches in different frames.Third, a neighborhood preserved, low-rank graph is learned and incorporated tobuild a unified optimized ranking model. Experiments on two benchmark datasetsshow the benefits of our model.

Multiple Graph Adversarial Learning

  Recently, Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) have been widely studied forgraph-structured data representation and learning. However, in many realapplications, data are coming with multiple graphs, and it is non-trivial toadapt GCNs to deal with data representation with multiple graph structures. Onemain challenge for multi-graph representation is how to exploit both structureinformation of each individual graph and correlation information acrossmultiple graphs simultaneously. In this paper, we propose a novel MultipleGraph Adversarial Learning (MGAL) framework for multi-graph representation andlearning. MGAL aims to learn an optimal structure-invariant and consistentrepresentation for multiple graphs in a common subspace via a novel adversariallearning framework, which thus incorporates both structure information ofintra-graph and correlation information of inter-graphs simultaneously. Basedon MGAL, we then provide a unified network for semi-supervised learning task.Promising experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of MGAL model.

Understanding and predicting synthetic lethal genetic interactions in  Saccharomyces cerevisiae using domain genetic interactions

  Genetic interactions have been widely used to define functional relationshipsbetween proteins and pathways. In this study, we demonstrated that yeastsynthetic lethal genetic interactions can be explained by the geneticinteractions between domains of those proteins. The domain genetic interactionsrarely overlap with the domain physical interactions from iPfam database andprovide a complementary view about domain relationships. Moreover, we foundthat domains in multidomain yeast proteins contribute to their geneticinteractions differently. The domain genetic interactions help more preciselydefine the function related to the synthetic lethal genetic interactions, andthen help understand how domains contribute to different functionalities ofmultidomain proteins. Using the probabilities of domain genetic interactions,we were able to predict novel yeast synthetic lethal genetic interactions.Furthermore, we had also identified novel compensatory pathways from thepredicted synthetic lethal genetic interactions. Our study significantlyimproved the understanding of yeast mulitdomain proteins, the synthetic lethalgenetic interactions and the functional relationships between proteins andpathways.

A unified theory for perfect absorption in ultra-thin absorptive films  with constant tangential electric or magnetic fields

  The maximal absorption rate of ultra-thin films is 50% under the conditionthat the tangential electric (or magnetic) field is almost constant across thefilm in symmetrical environment. However, with certain reflectors, theabsorption rate can be greatly increased, to even perfect absorption (100%). Inthis work, we explicitly derive the general conditions of the ultra-thinabsorptive film parameters to achieve perfect absorption with general types ofreflectors under the condition that the tangential electric (or magnetic) fieldis almost constant across the film. We find that the parameters of the film canbe classified into three groups, exhibiting: 1) a large permittivity(permeability), 2) a near-zero permeability (permittivity), or 3) a suitablecombination of the permittivity and the permeability, respectively.Interestingly, the latter two cases demonstrate extraordinary absorption inultra-thin films with almost vanishing losses. Our work serves as a guide fordesigning ultra-thin perfect absorbers with general types of reflectors.

Broadband perfect absorption of ultrathin conductive films with coherent  illumination:Superabsorption of microwave radiation

  Absorption of microwave by metallic conductors is exclusively inefficient,though being natively broadband, due to the huge impedance mismatch betweenmetal and free space. Reducing the thickness to ultrathin conductive film mayimprove the absorbing efficiency, but is still bounded by a maximal 50% limitinduced by the field continuity. Here, we show that broadband perfect (100%)absorption of microwave can be realized on a single layer of ultrathinconductive film when it is illuminated coherently by two oppositely incidentbeams. Such an effect of breaking the 50% limit maintains the intrinsicbroadband feature from the free carrier dissipation, and isfrequency-independent in an ultrawide spectrum, ranging typically fromkilohertz to gigahertz and exhibiting an unprecedented bandwidth close to 200%.In particular, it occurs on extremely subwavelength scales, ~{\lambda}/10000 oreven thinner, which is the film thickness. Our work proposes a way to achievetotal electromagnetic wave absorption in a broadband spectrum of radio wavesand microwaves with a simple conductive film.

Smooth Neighbors on Teacher Graphs for Semi-supervised Learning

  The recently proposed self-ensembling methods have achieved promising resultsin deep semi-supervised learning, which penalize inconsistent predictions ofunlabeled data under different perturbations. However, they only consideradding perturbations to each single data point, while ignoring the connectionsbetween data samples. In this paper, we propose a novel method, called SmoothNeighbors on Teacher Graphs (SNTG). In SNTG, a graph is constructed based onthe predictions of the teacher model, i.e., the implicit self-ensemble ofmodels. Then the graph serves as a similarity measure with respect to which therepresentations of "similar" neighboring points are learned to be smooth on thelow-dimensional manifold. We achieve state-of-the-art results onsemi-supervised learning benchmarks. The error rates are 9.89%, 3.99% forCIFAR-10 with 4000 labels, SVHN with 500 labels, respectively. In particular,the improvements are significant when the labels are fewer. For thenon-augmented MNIST with only 20 labels, the error rate is reduced fromprevious 4.81% to 1.36%. Our method also shows robustness to noisy labels.

Three-body recombination near a narrow Feshbach resonance in $^6$Li

  We experimentally measure, and theoretically analyze the three-atomrecombination rate, $L_3$, around a narrow $s$ wave magnetic Feshbach resonanceof $^6$Li-$^6$Li at 543.3 Gauss. By examining both the magnetic fielddependence and especially the temperature dependence of $L_3$ over a wide rangeof temperatures from a few $\mu$K to above 200 $\mu$K, we show that three-atomrecombination through a narrow resonance follows a universal behaviordetermined by the long-range van der Waals potential, and can be described by aset of rate equations in which three-body recombination proceeds via successivepairwise interactions. We expect the underlying physical picture to beapplicable not only to narrow $s$ wave resonances, but also to resonances innonzero partial waves, and not only at ultracold temperatures, but also at muchhigher temperatures.

Semi-crowdsourced Clustering with Deep Generative Models

  We consider the semi-supervised clustering problem where crowdsourcingprovides noisy information about the pairwise comparisons on a small subset ofdata, i.e., whether a sample pair is in the same cluster. We propose a newapproach that includes a deep generative model (DGM) to characterize low-levelfeatures of the data, and a statistical relational model for noisy pairwiseannotations on its subset. The two parts share the latent variables. To makethe model automatically trade-off between its complexity and fitting data, wealso develop its fully Bayesian variant. The challenge of inference isaddressed by fast (natural-gradient) stochastic variational inferencealgorithms, where we effectively combine variational message passing for therelational part and amortized learning of the DGM under a unified framework.Empirical results on synthetic and real-world datasets show that our modeloutperforms previous crowdsourced clustering methods.

Effectively integrating information content and structural relationship  to improve the GO-based similarity measure between proteins

  The Gene Ontology (GO) provides a knowledge base to effectively describeproteins. However, measuring similarity between proteins based on GO remains achallenge. In this paper, we propose a new similarity measure, informationcoefficient similarity measure (SimIC), to effectively integrate both theinformation content (IC) of GO terms and the structural information of GOhierarchy to determine the similarity between proteins. Testing on yeastproteins, our results show that SimIC efficiently addresses the shallowannotation issue in GO, thus improves the correlations between GO similaritiesof yeast proteins and their expression similarities as well as between GOsimilarities of yeast proteins and their sequence similarities. Furthermore, wedemonstrate that the proposed SimIC is superior in predicting yeast proteininteractions. We predict 20484 yeast protein-protein interactions (PPIs)between 2462 proteins based on the high SimIC values of biological process (BP)and cellular component (CC). Examining the 214 MIPS complexes in our predictedPPIs shows that all members of 159 MIPS complexes can be found in our PPIpredictions, which is more than those (120/214) found in PPIs predicted byrelative specificity similarity (RSS). Integrating IC and structuralinformation of GO hierarchy can improve the effectiveness of the semanticsimilarity measure of GO terms. The new SimIC can effectively correct theeffect of shallow annotation, and then provide an effective way to measuresimilarity between proteins based on Gene Ontology.

V1224 Cas - an EL CVn-type Eclipsing Binary Consisting of a Helium White  Dwarf Precursor and a Delta Scuti Pulsator

  We report the discovery of a new eclipsing EL CVn-type binary, consisting ofa $\delta$ Sct-type pulsator and a thermally bloated low-mass pre-He whitedwarf (WD). Spectroscopy and time-series $BV$ photometry of V1224 Cas werecarried out. The spectroscopy reveals a spectral type of A3 for the star.Light-curve modelling indicate that V1224 Cas is a short-period detached systemcontaining a possible low-mass WD with an effective temperature of about 9516K. Based on the effective temperature and the surface gravity of the A-typeprimary star from the spectroscopic results, the absolute parameters of thecomponents were estimated as: $M_{P}$=2.16$\pm$0.22$M_{\sun}$,$R_{P}$=3.54$\pm$0.12$R_{\sun}$, $L_{P}$=55.9$\pm$6.9$L_{\sun}$,$M_{S}$=0.19$\pm$0.02$M_{\sun}$, $R_{S}$=0.97$\pm$0.04$R_{\sun}$, and$L_{S}$=6.9$\pm$0.6$L_{\sun}$. We therefore introduce V1224 Cas as a new ELCVn-type binary candidate. The light curves in both filters all showmulti-periodic pulsations, superimposed on binary effects. We performed apreliminary frequency analysis of the light residuals after removing thesynthetic eclipsing curve from the original observational data. The resultssuggest that the rapid light variations among the light curves could beattributed to the $\delta$ Sct-type primary component. We therefore concludethat V1224 Cas is very likely a WD+$\delta$ Sct binary.

Cross Section Evaluation by Spinor Integration I: The massless case in  4D

  To get the total cross section of one interaction from its amplitude ${\calM}$, one needs to integrate $|{\cal M}|^2$ over phase spaces of all out-goingparticles. Starting from this paper, we will propose a new method to performsuch integrations, which is inspired by the reduced phase space integration ofone-loop unitarity cut developed in the last few years. The new method reducesone constrained three-dimension momentum space integration to anone-dimensional integration, plus one possible Feynman parameter integration.There is no need to specify a reference framework in our calculation, sinceevery step is manifestly Lorentz invariant by the new method. The current paperis the first paper of a series for the new method. Here we have exclusivelyfocused on massless particles in 4D. There is no need to carve out acomplicated integration region in the phase space for this particular simplecase because the integration region is always simply $[0,1]$.

Hierarchicality of Trade Flow Networks Reveals Complexity of Products

  With globalization, countries are more connected than before by tradingflows, which currently amount to at least 36 trillion dollars. Interestingly,approximately 30-60 percent of global exports consist of intermediate products.Therefore, the trade flow network of a particular product with high addedvalues can be regarded as a value chain. The problem is weather we candiscriminate between these products based on their unique flow networkstructure. This paper applies the flow analysis method developed in ecology to638 trading flow networks of different products. We claim that the allometricscaling exponent $\eta$ can be used to characterize the degree ofhierarchicality of a flow network, i.e., whether the trading products flow onlong hierarchical chains. Then, the flow networks of products with higher addedvalues and complexity, such as machinery&transport equipment with largerexponents, are highlighted. These higher values indicate that their trade flownetworks are more hierarchical. As a result, without extra data such as globalinput-output table, we can identify the product categories with highercomplexity and the relative importance of a country in the global value chainsolely by the trading network.

Quantum correlations in bulk properties of solids obtained from neutron  scattering

  We demonstrate that inelastic neutron scattering technique can be used toindirectly detect and measure the macroscopic quantum correlations quantifiedby both entanglement and discord in a quantum magnetic material, VODPO4 . 1D2O.The amount of quantum correlations is obtained 2 by analyzing the neutronscattering data of magnetic excitations in isolated V4+ spin dimers. Ourquantitative analysis shows that the critical temperature of this material canreach as high as Tc = 82.5 K, where quantum entanglement drops to zero.Significantly, quantum discord can even survive at Tc = 300 K and may be usedin room temperature quantum devices. Taking into account the spin-orbit (SO)coupling, we also predict theoretically that entanglement can be significantlyenhanced and the critical temperature Tc increases with the strength ofspin-orbit coupling.

Testing Einstein's Equivalence Principle with Supercluster Laniakea's  Gravitational Field

  Comparing the parameterized post-Newtonian parameter $\gamma$ values fordifferent types of particles, or the same type of particles with differentenergies is an important method to test the Einstein Equivalence Principle(EEP). Assuming that the observed time delays are dominated by thegravitational potential of the Laniakea supercluster of galaxies, betterresults of EEP constraints can be obtained. In this paper, we apply photonsfrom three kinds of cosmic transients, including TeV blazars, gamma-ray burstsas well as fast radio bursts to constrain EEP. With a gravitational field farmore stronger than a single galaxy, we obtain 4--5 orders of magnitude morestringent than the pervious results.

Chemical Responsive Single Crystal Organic Magnet

  Materials that change their magnetic properties in response to the externalstimuli have long been of interest for their potential applicability inmagnetic storage device, spintronics and smart magnetic materials. Organicmaterials are suitable candidates for such materials due to their chemicaldiversity, flexibility and designablity. However, most methods used forchanging magnetism are inefficient or destructive to the magnetic material.Hence there is a need for innovation in this field. Here we reporthigh-performance magnetic control of a gas-responsive single-molecule magnet(SMM). The results exhibit that the magnetic properties of the SMM can besignificantly changed according to the gas environment it is in and some of themagnetic states can be reversibly transformed or coexistent in the SMM throughartificial control. More importantly, the monocrystalline structure of the SMMremains unchanged during the transformation process except for slight change ofthe lattice constant. Thus, this work opens up new insights into thestimuli-responsive magnetic materials which have great prospects forapplication in artificial design magnetic network and also highlight theirpotential as smart materials.

Vehicle Traffic Driven Camera Placement for Better Metropolis Security  Surveillance

  Security surveillance is one of the most important issues in smart cities,especially in an era of terrorism. Deploying a number of (video) cameras is acommon surveillance approach. Given the never-ending power offered by vehiclesto metropolises, exploiting vehicle traffic to design camera placementstrategies could potentially facilitate security surveillance. This articleconstitutes the first effort toward building the linkage between vehicletraffic and security surveillance, which is a critical problem for smartcities. We expect our study could influence the decision making of surveillancecamera placement, and foster more research of principled ways of securitysurveillance beneficial to our physical-world life. Code has been made publiclyavailable.

I Know What You See: Power Side-Channel Attack on Convolutional Neural  Network Accelerators

  Deep learning has become the de-facto computational paradigm for variouskinds of perception problems, including many privacy-sensitive applicationssuch as online medical image analysis. No doubt to say, the data privacy ofthese deep learning systems is a serious concern. Different from previousresearch focusing on exploiting privacy leakage from deep learning models, inthis paper, we present the first attack on the implementation of deep learningmodels. To be specific, we perform the attack on an FPGA-based convolutionalneural network accelerator and we manage to recover the input image from thecollected power traces without knowing the detailed parameters in the neuralnetwork by utilizing the characteristics of the "line buffer" performingconvolution in the CNN accelerators. For the MNIST dataset, our powerside-channel attack is able to achieve up to 89% recognition accuracy.

Robust and Efficient Boosting Method using the Conditional Risk

  Well-known for its simplicity and effectiveness in classification, AdaBoost,however, suffers from overfitting when class-conditional distributions havesignificant overlap. Moreover, it is very sensitive to noise that appears inthe labels. This article tackles the above limitations simultaneously viaoptimizing a modified loss function (i.e., the conditional risk). The proposedapproach has the following two advantages. (1) It is able to directly take intoaccount label uncertainty with an associated label confidence. (2) Itintroduces a "trustworthiness" measure on training samples via the Bayesianrisk rule, and hence the resulting classifier tends to have finite sampleperformance that is superior to that of the original AdaBoost when there is alarge overlap between class conditional distributions. Theoretical propertiesof the proposed method are investigated. Extensive experimental results usingsynthetic data and real-world data sets from UCI machine learning repositoryare provided. The empirical study shows the high competitiveness of theproposed method in predication accuracy and robustness when compared with theoriginal AdaBoost and several existing robust AdaBoost algorithms.

The core-degenerate scenario for the progenitors of type Ia supernovae

  The origin of the progenitors of type Ia supernovae (SNe Ia) is stilluncertain. The core-degenerate (CD) scenario has been proposed as analternative way for the production of SNe Ia. In this scenario, SNe Ia areformed at the final stage of common-envelope evolution from a merger of acarbon-oxygen white dwarf (CO WD) with the CO core of an asymptotic giantbranch companion. However, the birthrates of SNe Ia from this scenario arestill not well determined. In this work, we performed a detailed investigationon the CD scenario based on a binary population synthesis approach. The SN Iadelay times from this scenario are basically in the range of 90Myr-2500Myr,mainly contributing to the observed SNe Ia with short and intermediate delaytimes although this scenario can also produce some old SNe Ia. Meanwhile, ourwork indicates that the Galactic birthrates of SNe Ia from this scenario are nomore than 20% of total SNe Ia due to more careful treatment of mass transfer.Although the SN Ia birthrates in the present work are lower than those in Ilkov& Soker, the CD scenario cannot be ruled out as a viable mechanism for theformation of SNe Ia. Especially, SNe Ia with circumstellar material from thisscenario contribute to 0.7-10% of total SNe Ia, which means that the CDscenario can reproduce the observed birthrates of SNe Ia like PTF 11kx. We alsofound that SNe Ia happen systemically earlier for a high value of metallicityand their birthrates increase with metallicity.

Carbon stars identified from LAMOST DR4 using Machine Learning

  In this work, we present a catalog of 2651 carbon stars from the fourth DataRelease (DR4) of the Large Sky Area Multi-Object Fiber Spectroscopy Telescope(LAMOST). Using an efficient machine-learning algorithm, we find out thesestars from more than seven million spectra. As a by-product, 17 carbon-enhancedmetal-poor (CEMP) turnoff star candidates are also reported in this paper, andthey are preliminarily identified by their atmospheric parameters. Except for176 stars that could not be given spectral types, we classify the other 2475carbon stars into five subtypes including 864 C-H, 226 C-R, 400 C-J, 266 C-N,and 719 barium stars based on a series of spectral features. Furthermore, wedivide the C-J stars into three subtypes of CJ( H), C-J(R), C-J(N), and about90% of them are cool N-type stars as expected from previous literature. Besidespectroscopic classification, we also match these carbon stars to multiplebroadband photometries. Using ultraviolet photometry data, we find that 25carbon stars have FUV detections and they are likely to be in binary systemswith compact white dwarf companions.

19 low mass hyper-velocity star candidates from the first data release  of LAMOST survey

  Hyper-velocity stars are believed to be ejected out from the Galactic centerthrough dynamical interactions between (binary) stars and the central massiveblack hole(s). In this paper, we report 19 low mass F/G/K type hyper-velocitystar candidates from over one mil- lion stars of the first data release of theLAMOST general survey. We determine the unbound probability for each candidateusing a Monte-Carlo simulation by assuming a non-Gaussian proper-motion errordistribution, Gaussian heliocentric distance and radial velocity error dis-tributions. The simulation results show that all the candidates have unboundpossibilities over 50% as expected, and one of them may even exceed escapevelocity with over 90% probabili- ty. In addition, we compare the metallicitiesof our candidates with the metallicity distribution functions of the Galacticbulge, disk, halo and globular cluster, and conclude that the Galactic bulge ordisk is likely the birth place for our candidates.

Carbon stars from LAMOST DR2 data

  In this work, we present the new catalog of carbon stars from the LAMOST DR2catalog. In total, 894 carbon stars are identified from multiple line indicesmeasured from the stellar spectra. Combining the CN bands in the red end with\ctwo\ and other lines, we are able to identify the carbon stars. Moreover, wealso classify the carbon stars into spectral sub-types of \ch, \CR, and \cn.These sub-types approximately show distinct features in the multi-dimensionalline indices, implying that in the future we can use them to identify carbonstars from larger spectroscopic datasets. Meanwhile, from the line indicesspace, while the \cn\ stars are clearly separated from the others, we find noclear separation between \CR\ and \ch\ sub-types. The \CR\ and \ch\ stars seemto smoothly transition from one to another. This may hint that the \CR\ and\ch\ stars may not be different in their origins but look different in theirspectra because of different metallicity. Due to the relatively low spectralresolution and lower signal-to-noise ratio, the ratio of $^{12}$C/$^{13}$C isnot measured and thus the \cj\ stars are not identified.

Tree-Structured Neural Machine for Linguistics-Aware Sentence Generation

  Different from other sequential data, sentences in natural language arestructured by linguistic grammars. Previous generative conversational modelswith chain-structured decoder ignore this structure in human language and mightgenerate plausible responses with less satisfactory relevance and fluency. Inthis study, we aim to incorporate the results from linguistic analysis into theprocess of sentence generation for high-quality conversation generation.Specifically, we use a dependency parser to transform each response sentenceinto a dependency tree and construct a training corpus of sentence-tree pairs.A tree-structured decoder is developed to learn the mapping from a sentence toits tree, where different types of hidden states are used to depict the localdependencies from an internal tree node to its children. For trainingacceleration, we propose a tree canonicalization method, which transforms treesinto equivalent ternary trees. Then, with a proposed tree-structured searchmethod, the model is able to generate the most probable responses in the formof dependency trees, which are finally flattened into sequences as the systemoutput. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed X2Tree frameworkoutperforms baseline methods over 11.15% increase of acceptance ratio.

Bound states in the continuum of fractional Schrödinger equation in  the Earth's gravitational field and their effects in the presence of a  minimal length: applications to distinguish ultralight particles

  In this paper, the influence of the fractional dimensions of the L\'evy pathunder the Earth's gravitational field is studied, and the phase transitions ofenergy and wave functions are obtained: the energy changes from discrete tocontinuous and wave functions change from non-degenerate to degenerate whendimension of L\'evy path becomes from integer to non-integer. By analyzing thephase transitions, we solve two popular problems. First, we find an exotic wayto produce the bound states in the continuum (BICs), our approach only needs asimple potential, and does not depend on interactions between particles.Second, we address the continuity of the energy will become strong when themass of the particle becomes small. By deeply analyze, it can provide a way todistinguish ultralight particles from others types in the Earth's gravitationalfield, and five popular particles are discussed. In addition, we obtainanalytical expressions for the wave functions and energy in the Earth'sgravitational field in the circumstance of a fractional fractal dimensionalL\'evy path. Moreover, to consider the influence of the minimal length, weanalyze the phase transitions and the BICs in the presence of the minimallength. We find the phenomenon energy shift do not exist, which is a commonphenomenon in the presence of the minimal length, and hence such abovephenomena can still be found. Finally, relations between our results andexisting results are discussed.

"Bilingual Expert" Can Find Translation Errors

  Recent advances in statistical machine translation via the adoption of neuralsequence-to-sequence models empower the end-to-end system to achievestate-of-the-art in many WMT benchmarks. The performance of such machinetranslation (MT) system is usually evaluated by automatic metric BLEU when thegolden references are provided for validation. However, for model inference orproduction deployment, the golden references are prohibitively available orrequire expensive human annotation with bilingual expertise. In order toaddress the issue of quality evaluation (QE) without reference, we propose ageneral framework for automatic evaluation of translation output for most WMTquality evaluation tasks. We first build a conditional target language modelwith a novel bidirectional transformer, named neural bilingual expert model,which is pre-trained on large parallel corpora for feature extraction. For QEinference, the bilingual expert model can simultaneously produce the jointlatent representation between the source and the translation, and real-valuedmeasurements of possible erroneous tokens based on the prior knowledge learnedfrom parallel data. Subsequently, the features will further be fed into asimple Bi-LSTM predictive model for quality evaluation. The experimentalresults show that our approach achieves the state-of-the-art performance in thequality estimation track of WMT 2017/2018.

Hybrid entanglement of three quantum memories with three photons

  Quantum network has significant applications both practically andfundamentally. A hybrid architecture with photons and stationary nodes ishighly promising. So far, experimental realizations are limited to two nodeswith two photons. Going beyond state of the art by entangling many photons withmany quantum nodes is highly appreciated. Here, we report an experimentrealizing hybrid entanglement between three photons and three atomic-ensemblequantum memories. We make use of three similar setups, in each of which onepair of photon-memory entanglement with high overall efficiency is created viacavity enhancement. Through three-photon interference, the three quantummemories get entangled with the three photons. Via measuring the photons andapplying feedforward, we heraldedly entangle the three memories. Our workdemonstrates the largest size of hybrid memory-photon entanglement, which maybe employed as a build block to construct larger and complex quantum network.

ConvPath: A Software Tool for Lung Adenocarcinoma Digital Pathological  Image Analysis Aided by Convolutional Neural Network

  The spatial distributions of different types of cells could reveal a cancercell growth pattern, its relationships with the tumor microenvironment and theimmune response of the body, all of which represent key hallmarks of cancer.However, manually recognizing and localizing all the cells in pathology slidesare almost impossible. In this study, we developed an automated cell typeclassification pipeline, ConvPath, which includes nuclei segmentation,convolutional neural network-based tumor, stromal and lymphocytesclassification, and extraction of tumor microenvironment related features forlung cancer pathology images. The overall classification accuracy is 92.9% and90.1% in training and independent testing datasets, respectively. Byidentifying cells and classifying cell types, this pipeline can convert apathology image into a spatial map of tumor, stromal and lymphocyte cells. Fromthis spatial map, we can extracted features that characterize the tumormicro-environment. Based on these features, we developed an image feature-basedprognostic model and validated the model in two independent cohorts. Thepredicted risk group serves as an independent prognostic factor, afteradjusting for clinical variables that include age, gender, smoking status, andstage.

Entanglement of two quantum memories via metropolitan-scale fibers

  Quantum internet will enable a number of revolutionary applications, such asdistributed quantum computing, large-scale quantum communication andcooperative operation of atomic clocks. It relies on entanglement of remotequantum memories over long distances. Yet, maximal reported distance achievedso far was merely about 1 km and experimental challenges for long distanceremains. Here, by using cavity enhancement to create bright atom-photonentanglement and harnessing quantum frequency conversion to shift the atomicwavelength to telecom, we create atom-atom entanglement over 22 kmfield-deployed fibers via two-photon interference. Moreover, by exploiting aconcatenated phase-locking scheme, we use single-photon interference toentangle two atomic ensembles by transmission over 50 km coiled fibers. Ourwork demonstrates full-functional segments for atomic quantum networks atmetropolitan scale, and pave the way towards establishing atomic entanglementover many nodes and over much longer distance in a scalable way.

