Outlier Robust ICP for Minimizing Fractional RMSD

  We describe a variation of the iterative closest point (ICP) algorithm foraligning two point sets under a set of transformations. Our algorithm issuperior to previous algorithms because (1) in determining the optimalalignment, it identifies and discards likely outliers in a statistically robustmanner, and (2) it is guaranteed to converge to a locally optimal solution. Tothis end, we formalize a new distance measure, fractional root mean squareddistance (frmsd), which incorporates the fraction of inliers into the distancefunction. We lay out a specific implementation, but our framework can easilyincorporate most techniques and heuristics from modern registration algorithms.We experimentally validate our algorithm against previous techniques on 2 and 3dimensional data exposed to a variety of outlier types.

Performance Measures and a Data Set for Multi-Target, Multi-Camera  Tracking

  To help accelerate progress in multi-target, multi-camera tracking systems,we present (i) a new pair of precision-recall measures of performance thattreats errors of all types uniformly and emphasizes correct identification oversources of error; (ii) the largest fully-annotated and calibrated data set todate with more than 2 million frames of 1080p, 60fps video taken by 8 camerasobserving more than 2,700 identities over 85 minutes; and (iii) a referencesoftware system as a comparison baseline. We show that (i) our measuresproperly account for bottom-line identity match performance in the multi-camerasetting; (ii) our data set poses realistic challenges to current trackers; and(iii) the performance of our system is comparable to the state of the art.

Features for Multi-Target Multi-Camera Tracking and Re-Identification

  Multi-Target Multi-Camera Tracking (MTMCT) tracks many people through videotaken from several cameras. Person Re-Identification (Re-ID) retrieves from agallery images of people similar to a person query image. We learn goodfeatures for both MTMCT and Re-ID with a convolutional neural network. Ourcontributions include an adaptive weighted triplet loss for training and a newtechnique for hard-identity mining. Our method outperforms the state of the artboth on the DukeMTMC benchmarks for tracking, and on the Market-1501 andDukeMTMC-ReID benchmarks for Re-ID. We examine the correlation between goodRe-ID and good MTMCT scores, and perform ablation studies to elucidate thecontributions of the main components of our system. Code is available.

Describing many-body localized systems in thermal environments

  In this work we formulate an efficient method for the description ofmany-body localized systems in weak contact with thermal environments attemperature $T$. For this purpose we exploit the representation of the systemin terms of quasi-local integrals of motion ($l$-bits) to derive a quantummaster equation using Born-Markov approximations. We show how this equation canbe treated by using quantum-jump Monte-Carlo techniques as well as by derivingapproximate kinetic equations of motion. As an example, we consider theone-dimensional Anderson model for spinless fermions including alsonearest-neighbor interactions, which we diagonalize approximately by employinga recently proposed method valid in the limit of strong disorder and weakinteractions. Coupling the system to a global thermal bath, we study thetransport between two leads with different chemical potentials at both of itsends. We find that the temperature-dependent current is captured by aninteraction-dependent version of Mott's law for variable range hopping, wheretransport is enhanced/lowered depending on whether the interactions areattractive or repulsive, respectively. We interpret these results in terms ofspatio-energetic correlations between the $l$-bits.

PRISM (Polarized Radiation Imaging and Spectroscopy Mission): An  Extended White Paper

  PRISM (Polarized Radiation Imaging and Spectroscopy Mission) was proposed toESA in May 2013 as a large-class mission for investigating within the frameworkof the ESA Cosmic Vision program a set of important scientific questions thatrequire high resolution, high sensitivity, full-sky observations of the skyemission at wavelengths ranging from millimeter-wave to the far-infrared.PRISM's main objective is to explore the distant universe, probing cosmichistory from very early times until now as well as the structures, distributionof matter, and velocity flows throughout our Hubble volume. PRISM will surveythe full sky in a large number of frequency bands in both intensity andpolarization and will measure the absolute spectrum of sky emission more thanthree orders of magnitude better than COBE FIRAS. The aim of this ExtendedWhite Paper is to provide a more detailed overview of the highlights of the newscience that will be made possible by PRISM

Exploring Cosmic Origins with CORE: Cosmological Parameters

  We forecast the main cosmological parameter constraints achievable with theCORE space mission which is dedicated to mapping the polarisation of the CosmicMicrowave Background (CMB). CORE was recently submitted in response to ESA'sfifth call for medium-sized mission proposals (M5). Here we report the resultsfrom our pre-submission study of the impact of various instrumental options, inparticular the telescope size and sensitivity level, and review the great,transformative potential of the mission as proposed. Specifically, we assessthe impact on a broad range of fundamental parameters of our Universe as afunction of the expected CMB characteristics, with other papers in the seriesfocusing on controlling astrophysical and instrumental residual systematics. Inthis paper, we assume that only a few central CORE frequency channels areusable for our purpose, all others being devoted to the cleaning ofastrophysical contaminants. On the theoretical side, we assume LCDM as ourgeneral framework and quantify the improvement provided by CORE over thecurrent constraints from the Planck 2015 release. We also study the jointsensitivity of CORE and of future Baryon Acoustic Oscillation and Large ScaleStructure experiments like DESI and Euclid. Specific constraints on the physicsof inflation are presented in another paper of the series. In addition to thesix parameters of the base LCDM, which describe the matter content of aspatially flat universe with adiabatic and scalar primordial fluctuations frominflation, we derive the precision achievable on parameters like thosedescribing curvature, neutrino physics, extra light relics, primordial heliumabundance, dark matter annihilation, recombination physics, variation offundamental constants, dark energy, modified gravity, reionization and cosmicbirefringence. (ABRIDGED)

Exploring Cosmic Origins with CORE: Inflation

  We forecast the scientific capabilities to improve our understanding ofcosmic inflation of CORE, a proposed CMB space satellite submitted in responseto the ESA fifth call for a medium-size mission opportunity. The CORE satellitewill map the CMB anisotropies in temperature and polarization in 19 frequencychannels spanning the range 60-600 GHz. CORE will have an aggregate noisesensitivity of $1.7 \mu$K$\cdot \,$arcmin and an angular resolution of 5' at200 GHz. We explore the impact of telescope size and noise sensitivity on theinflation science return by making forecasts for several instrumentalconfigurations. This study assumes that the lower and higher frequency channelssuffice to remove foreground contaminations and complements other relatedstudies of component separation and systematic effects, which will be reportedin other papers of the series "Exploring Cosmic Origins with CORE." We forecastthe capability to determine key inflationary parameters, to lower the detectionlimit for the tensor-to-scalar ratio down to the $10^{-3}$ level, to chart thelandscape of single field slow-roll inflationary models, to constrain the epochof reheating, thus connecting inflation to the standard radiation-matterdominated Big Bang era, to reconstruct the primordial power spectrum, toconstrain the contribution from isocurvature perturbations to the $10^{-3}$level, to improve constraints on the cosmic string tension to a level below thepresumptive GUT scale, and to improve the current measurements of primordialnon-Gaussianities down to the $f_{NL}^{\rm local} < 1$ level. For all themodels explored, CORE alone will improve significantly on the presentconstraints on the physics of inflation. Its capabilities will be furtherenhanced by combining with complementary future cosmological observations.

PRISM (Polarized Radiation Imaging and Spectroscopy Mission): A White  Paper on the Ultimate Polarimetric Spectro-Imaging of the Microwave and  Far-Infrared Sky

  PRISM (Polarized Radiation Imaging and Spectroscopy Mission) was proposed toESA in response to the Call for White Papers for the definition of the L2 andL3 Missions in the ESA Science Programme. PRISM would have two instruments: (1)an imager with a 3.5m mirror (cooled to 4K for high performance in thefar-infrared---that is, in the Wien part of the CMB blackbody spectrum), and(2) an Fourier Transform Spectrometer (FTS) somewhat like the COBE FIRASinstrument but over three orders of magnitude more sensitive. Highlights of thenew science (beyond the obvious target of B-modes from gravity waves generatedduring inflation) made possible by these two instruments working in tandeminclude: (1) the ultimate galaxy cluster survey gathering 10e6 clustersextending to large redshift and measuring their peculiar velocities andtemperatures (through the kSZ effect and relativistic corrections to theclassic y-distortion spectrum, respectively) (2) a detailed investigation intothe nature of the cosmic infrared background (CIB) consisting of at presentunresolved dusty high-z galaxies, where most of the star formation in theuniverse took place, (3) searching for distortions from the perfect CMBblackbody spectrum, which will probe a large number of otherwise inaccessibleeffects (e.g., energy release through decaying dark matter, the primordialpower spectrum on very small scales where measurements today are impossible dueto erasure from Silk damping and contamination from non-linear cascading ofpower from larger length scales). These are but a few of the highlights of thenew science that will be made possible with PRISM.

Exploring cosmic origins with CORE: gravitational lensing of the CMB

  Lensing of the CMB is now a well-developed probe of large-scale clusteringover a broad range of redshifts. By exploiting the non-Gaussian imprints oflensing in the polarization of the CMB, the CORE mission can produce a cleanmap of the lensing deflections over nearly the full-sky. The number of high-S/Nmodes in this map will exceed current CMB lensing maps by a factor of 40, andthe measurement will be sample-variance limited on all scales where lineartheory is valid. Here, we summarise this mission product and discuss thescience that it will enable. For example, the summed mass of neutrinos will bedetermined to an accuracy of 17 meV combining CORE lensing and CMB two-pointinformation with contemporaneous BAO measurements, three times smaller than theminimum total mass allowed by neutrino oscillations. In the search for B-modepolarization from primordial gravitational waves with CORE, lens-inducedB-modes will dominate over instrument noise, limiting constraints on thegravitational wave power spectrum amplitude. With lensing reconstructed byCORE, one can "delens" the observed polarization internally, reducing thelensing B-mode power by 60%. This improves to 70% by combining lensing and CIBmeasurements from CORE, reducing the error on the gravitational wave amplitudeby 2.5 compared to no delensing (in the null hypothesis). Lensing measurementsfrom CORE will allow calibration of the halo masses of the 40000 galaxyclusters that it will find, with constraints dominated by the cleanpolarization-based estimators. CORE can accurately remove Galactic emissionfrom CMB maps with its 19 frequency channels. We present initial findings thatshow that residual Galactic foreground contamination will not be a significantsource of bias for lensing power spectrum measurements with CORE. [abridged]

Planck 2015 results. VI. LFI mapmaking

  This paper describes the mapmaking procedure applied to Planck LFI (LowFrequency Instrument) data. The mapmaking step takes as input the calibratedtimelines and pointing information. The main products are sky maps of $I,Q$,and $U$ Stokes components. For the first time, we present polarization maps atLFI frequencies. The mapmaking algorithm is based on a destriping technique,enhanced with a noise prior. The Galactic region is masked to reduce errorsarising from bandpass mismatch and high signal gradients. We apply horn-uniformradiometer weights to reduce effects of beam shape mismatch. The algorithm isthe same as used for the 2013 release, apart from small changes in parametersettings. We validate the procedure through simulations. Special emphasis isput on the control of systematics, which is particularly important for accuratepolarization analysis. We also produce low-resolution versions of the maps, andcorresponding noise covariance matrices. These serve as input in later analysissteps and parameter estimation. The noise covariance matrices are validatedthrough noise Monte Carlo simulations. The residual noise in the map productsis characterized through analysis of half-ring maps, noise covariance matrices,and simulations.

Planck 2015 results. XII. Full Focal Plane simulations

  We present the 8th Full Focal Plane simulation set (FFP8), deployed insupport of the Planck 2015 results. FFP8 consists of 10 fiducial missionrealizations reduced to 18144 maps, together with the most massive suite ofMonte Carlo realizations of instrument noise and CMB ever generated, comprising$10^4$ mission realizations reduced to about $10^6$ maps. The resulting mapsincorporate the dominant instrumental, scanning, and data analysis effects;remaining subdominant effects will be included in future updates. Generated ata cost of some 25 million CPU-hours spread across multiplehigh-performance-computing (HPC) platforms, FFP8 is used for the validation andverification of analysis algorithms, as well as their implementations, and forremoving biases from and quantifying uncertainties in the results of analysesof the real data.

Exploring cosmic origins with CORE: effects of observer peculiar motion

  We discuss the effects on the CMB, CIB, and thermal SZ effect due to thepeculiar motion of an observer with respect to the CMB rest frame, whichinduces boosting effects. We investigate the scientific perspectives opened byfuture CMB space missions, focussing on the CORE proposal. The improvements insensitivity offered by a mission like CORE, together with its high resolutionover a wide frequency range, will provide a more accurate estimate of the CMBdipole. The extension of boosting effects to polarization andcross-correlations will enable a more robust determination of purelyvelocity-driven effects that are not degenerate with the intrinsic CMB dipole,allowing us to achieve a S/N ratio of 13; this improves on the Planck detectionand essentially equals that of an ideal cosmic-variance-limited experiment upto a multipole l of 2000. Precise inter-frequency calibration will offer theopportunity to constrain or even detect CMB spectral distortions, particularlyfrom the cosmological reionization, because of the frequency dependence of thedipole spectrum, without resorting to precise absolute calibration. Theexpected improvement with respect to COBE-FIRAS in the recovery of distortionparameters (in principle, a factor of several hundred for an ideal experimentwith the CORE configuration) ranges from a factor of several up to about 50,depending on the quality of foreground removal and relative calibration. Evenfor 1% accuracy in both foreground removal and relative calibration at anangular scale of 1 deg, we find that dipole analyses for a mission like COREwill be able to improve the recovery of the CIB spectrum amplitude by a factorof 17 in comparison with current results based on FIRAS. In addition to thescientific potential of a mission like CORE for these analyses, synergies withother planned and ongoing projects are also discussed.

Primordial Non-Gaussianity

  Our current understanding of the Universe is established through the pristinemeasurements of structure in the cosmic microwave background (CMB) and thedistribution and shapes of galaxies tracing the large scale structure (LSS) ofthe Universe. One key ingredient that underlies cosmological observables isthat the field that sources the observed structure is assumed to be initiallyGaussian with high precision. Nevertheless, a minimal deviation fromGaussianityis perhaps the most robust theoretical prediction of models thatexplain the observed Universe; itis necessarily present even in the simplestscenarios. In addition, most inflationary models produce far higher levels ofnon-Gaussianity. Since non-Gaussianity directly probes the dynamics in theearly Universe, a detection would present a monumental discovery in cosmology,providing clues about physics at energy scales as high as the GUT scale.

Planck Early Results. VII. The Early Release Compact Source Catalog

  (Abridged) A brief description of the methodology of construction, contentsand usage of the Planck Early Release Compact Source Catalogue (ERCSC),including the Early Cold Cores (ECC) and the Early Sunyaev-Zeldovich (ESZ)cluster catalogue is provided. The catalogue is based on data that consist ofmapping the entire sky once and 60% of the sky a second time by Planck, therebycomprising the first high sensitivity radio/submillimetre observations of theentire sky. A Monte-Carlo algorithm based on the injection and extraction ofartificial sources into the Planck maps was implemented to select reliablesources among all extracted candidates such that the cumulative reliability ofthe catalogue is >=90%. The 10sigma photometric flux density limit of thecatalogue at |b|>30 deg is 0.49, 1.0, 0.67, 0.5, 0.33, 0.28, 0.25, 0.47 and0.82 Jy at each of the nine frequencies between 30 and 857 GHz. Sources whichare up to a factor of ~2 fainter than this limit, and which are present in"clean" regions of the Galaxy where the sky background due to emission from theinterstellar medium is low, are included in the ERCSC if they meet the highreliability criterion. The Planck ERCSC sources have known associations tostars with dust shells, stellar cores, radio galaxies, blazars, infraredluminous galaxies and Galactic interstellar medium features. A significantfraction of unclassified sources are also present in the catalogs. In addition,two early release catalogs that contain 915 cold molecular cloud corecandidates and 189 SZ cluster candidates that have been generated usingmulti-frequency algorithms are presented. The entire source list, with morethan 15000 unique sources, is ripe for follow-up characterisation withHerschel, ATCA, VLA, SOFIA, ALMA and other ground-based observing facilities.

Planck intermediate results. XIII. Constraints on peculiar velocities

  Using \Planck\ data combined with the Meta Catalogue of X-ray detectedClusters of galaxies (MCXC), we address the study of peculiar motions bysearching for evidence of the kinetic Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect (kSZ). Byimplementing various filters designed to extract the kSZ generated at thepositions of the clusters, we obtain consistent constraints on the radialpeculiar velocity average, root mean square (rms), and local bulk flowamplitude at different depths. For the whole cluster sample of average redshift0.18, the measured average radial peculiar velocity with respect to the cosmicmicrowave background (CMB) radiation at that redshift, i.e., the kSZ monopole,amounts to $72 \pm 60$ km s$^{-1}$. This constitutes less than 1% of therelative Hubble velocity of the cluster sample with respect to our local CMBframe. While the linear $\Lambda$CDM prediction for the typical cluster radialvelocity rms at $z=0.15$ is close to 230km s$^{-1}$, the upper limit imposed by\Planck\ data on the cluster subsample corresponds to 800 km s$^{-1}$ at 95%confidence level, i.e., about three times higher. \Planck\ data also set strongconstraints on the local bulk flow in volumes centred on the Local Group. Thereis no detection of bulk flow as measured in any comoving sphere extending tothe maximum redshift covered by the cluster sample. A blind search for bulkflows in this sample has an upper limit of 254 km s$^{-1}$ (95% confidencelevel) dominated by CMB confusion and instrumental noise, indicating that theUniverse is largely homogeneous on Gpc scales. In this context, in conjunctionwith supernova observations, \Planck\ is able to rule out a large class ofinhomogeneous void models as alternatives to dark energy or modified gravity.The \Planck\ constraints on peculiar velocities and bulk flows are thusconsistent with the $\Lambda$CDM scenario.

Planck intermediate results. XXXVII. Evidence of unbound gas from the  kinetic Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect

  By looking at the kinetic Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect (kSZ) in Planck nominalmission data, we present a significant detection of baryons participating inlarge-scale bulk flows around central galaxies (CGs) at redshift $z\approx0.1$. We estimate the pairwise momentum of the kSZ temperature fluctuations atthe positions of the CGC (Central Galaxy Catalogue) samples extracted fromSloan Digital Sky Survey (DR7) data. For the foreground-cleaned maps, we find$1.8$-$2.5\sigma$ detections of the kSZ signal, which are consistent with thekSZ evidence found in individual Planck raw frequency maps, although lower thanfound in the WMAP-9yr W band ($3.3\sigma$). We further reconstruct the peculiarvelocity field from the CG density field, and compute for the first time thecross-correlation function between kSZ temperature fluctuations and estimatesof CG radial peculiar velocities. This correlation function yields a$3.0$-$3.7$$\sigma$ detection of the peculiar motion of extended gas on Mpcscales, in flows correlated up to distances of 80-100 $h^{-1}$ Mpc. Both thepairwise momentum estimates and kSZ temperature-velocity field correlation findevidence for kSZ signatures out to apertures of 8 arcmin and beyond,corresponding to a physical radius of $> 1$ Mpc, more than twice the meanvirial radius of halos. This is consistent with the predictions from hydrosimulations that most of the baryons are outside the virialized halos. We fit asimple model, in which the temperature-velocity cross-correlation isproportional to the signal seen in a semi-analytic model built upon N-bodysimulations, and interpret the proportionality constant as an "effective"optical depth to Thomson scattering. We find $\tau_T=(1.4\pm0.5)\times10^{-4}$; the simplest interpretation of this measurement is that much of thegas is in a diffuse phase, which contributes little signal to X-ray or thermalSZ observations.

