A Deterministic Equivalent for the Analysis of Small Cell Networks

  To properly reflect the main purpose of this work, we have changed the papertitle to: A Deterministic Equivalent for the Analysis of Non-GaussianCorrelated MIMO Multiple Access Channels

Border Effect of Complex Network: An analysis on the cooperation network  of movie stars across different regions

  People always carry out social activities within certain geographic space.The geographic boundary likes national boundaries and provincial boundariesfunctions as dividing policies, distributing administrative resources, definingthe scope of application of laws and regulations or even the boundary ofcultural region, producing fundamental influence on lifestyle. Network analysisis a powerful tool to abstract complex system. In this article, we used networkmethod to understand changes of cooperation network in movie industry andeffect of geographical boundary.

Direct Evidence of Superconductivity with Twofold Symmetry in Bi2Te3  Thin Film Deposited on FeTe0.55Se0.45

  Topological superconductor is a timely and frontier topic in condensed matterphysics. In superconducting state, an order parameter will be established withthe basic or subsidiary symmetry of the crystalline lattice. In doped Bi2Se3with a basic threefold symmetry, it was predicted however thatsuperconductivity may have a twofold symmetry of odd parity. Here we report theproximity effect induced superconductivity in Bi2Te3 thin film on top of aniron-based superconductor FeTe0.55Se0.45. By using the quasiparticleinterference technique, we demonstrate clear evidence of twofold symmetry ofthe superconducting gap. The gap minimum is along one of the main crystallineaxis following the so-called Delta_4y notation. This is also accompanied by theelongated vortex shape mapped out by the density of states within thesuperconducting gap, with probably the Majorana mode within the vortex core.Our results reveal the direct evidence of superconductivity with odd parity inBi2Te3 thin film.

Design and Fabrication of a Novel Micro Electromagnetic Actuator

  The present study presents a new micro electromagnetic actuator utilizing aPDMS membrane with a magnet. The actuator is integrated with micro coils toelectromagnetically actuate the membrane and results in a large deflection. Themicro electromagnetic actuator proposed in this study is easily fabricated andis readily integrated with existing bio-medical chips due to its planarstructure.

Quantum Jumps between Macroscopic Quantum States of a Superconducting  Qubit Coupled to a Microscopic Two-Level System

  We report the observation of quantum jumps between macroscopic quantum statesin a superconducting phase qubit coupled to the two-level systems in theJosephson tunnel junction, and all key features of quantum jumps are confirmedin the experiments. Moreover, quantum jumps can be used to calibrate suchtwo-level systems, which are believed to be one of the main decoherence sourcesin Josephson devices.

Optimal Storage and Retrieval of Single-Photon Waveforms

  We report an experimental demonstration of optimal storage and retrieval ofheralded single-photon wave packets using electromagnetically inducedtransparency (EIT) in cold atoms at a high optical depth. We obtain an optimalstorage efficiency of (49+/-3)% for single-photon waveforms with a temporallikeness of 96%. Our result brings the EIT quantum light-matter interface closeto practical quantum information applications.

The mode switching of PSR B2020+28

  This paper reports on polarimetric radiation properties based on theswitching modes of normal PSR B2020+28 by analysing the data acquired from theNanshan 25-m radio telescope at 1556 MHz. With nearly 8 hours quasi-continuousobservation, the data presented some striking and updated phenomena. The changeof relative intensity between the leading and trailing components is thepredominant feature of mode switching. The intensity ratio between the leadingand trailing components are measured for the individual profiles averaged over30 seconds. It is found that there is an excess of high ratios over the normaldistribution, which indicates that two modes exist in the pulsar. Thedistribution of abnormal mode has a narrower width indicating that the abnormalmode is more stable than the normal mode. A total of 76 mode switching eventsare detected in our data. It spends 89\% in the normal mode and 11\% in theabnormal mode. The intrinsic distributions of mode timescales are constrainedwith power-law distributions. The significant difference in the index of theduration distribution between normal and abnormal modes possibly indicates thatthe timescale for the abnormal mode to get stable is shorter than that for thenormal mode. The frequent switching between both modes may indicate that theoscillations between different magnetospheric states are rapid.

Direct visualization of sign reversal s^+- superconducting gaps in  FeTe0.55Se0.45

  In many unconventional superconductors, the pairing of electrons is driven bythe repulsive interaction, which leads to the sign reversal of superconductinggaps along the Fermi surfaces (FS) or between them. However, to measure thissign change is not easy and straightforward. It is known that, insuperconductors with sign reversal gaps, non-magnetic impurities can breakCooper pairs leading to the quasiparticle density of states in thesuperconducting state. The standing waves of these quasiparticles willinterfere each other leading to the quasiparticle interference (QPI) patternwhich carries the phase message reflecting also the superconducting gapstructure. Based on the recently proposed defect-bound-state QPI technique, weexplore the applicability of this technique to a typical iron basedsuperconductor FeTe$_{0.55}$Se$_{0.45}$ with roughly equivalent gap values onthe electron and hole pockets connected by the wave vector q_2=(0,\pi). It isfound that, on the negative energy side, with the energy slightly below the gapvalue, the phase reference quantity $|g(q,-E)|\cos(\theta_{q,+E}-\theta_{q,-E})becomes negative and the amplitude is strongly enhanced with the scatteringvector q_2, but that corresponding to the scattering between theelectron-electron pockets, namely q_3=(\pi,\pi), keeps all positive. This iswell consistent with the theoretical expectation of the s^+- pairing gap andthus serves as a direct visualization of the sign reversal gaps. Thisexperimental observation is also supported by the theoretical calculations withthe Fermi surface structure and s^+- pairing gap.

The structural and electronic properties of Stone-Wales defective  zigzag/armchair antimonene nanotubes: First-principles calculations

  Geometric optimization and electronic properties of Stone-Wales defectiveantimonene nanotubes are calculated by the method of first -principlecalculations based on density functional theory. Various nanotubes areinvestigated according to the possible orientations of zigzag/armchairnanostructures when Stone-Wales defects are formed. The band structures,partial density of states and atomic orbitals are calculated to reveal themechanism of influence of Stone-Wales defects on antimonene nanotubes. When thestructure of antimonene changes from monolayer to tube, the indirect gapsemiconductor antimonene transforms to a direct gap one. Moreover, thecharacter of direct band gap for the antimonene nanotube is preserved with theStone-Wales defect forming, while the energy of conduction band bottoms changedue to the intervene of the defect energy level in the band gaps. These resultsmay provide valuable references to the development and design of novelnanotubes based on antimonene nanotubes.

Structured Beam Generation with a Single Metasurface

  Despite a plethora of applications ranging from quantum memories tohigh-resolution lithography, the current technologies to generate vector vortexbeams (VVBs) suffer from less efficient energy use, poor resolution, low damagethreshold, bulky size and complicated experimental setup, preventing furtherpractical applications. We propose and experimentally demonstrate an approachto generate VVBs with a single metasurface by locally tailoring phase andtransverse polarization distribution. This method features the spin-orbitcoupling and the superposition of the converted part with an additional phasepickup and the residual part without a phase change. By maintaining the equalcomponents for the converted part and the residual part, the cylindricallypolarized vortex beams carrying orbital angular momentum are experimentallydemonstrated based on a single metasurface at subwavelength scale. The proposedapproach provides unprecedented freedom in engineering the properties ofoptical waves with the high-efficiency light utilization and a minimalfootprint.

Recent Developments and Future Challenges in Medical Mixed Reality

  Mixed Reality (MR) is of increasing interest within technology-driven modernmedicine but is not yet used in everyday practice. This situation is changingrapidly, however, and this paper explores the emergence of MR technology andthe importance of its utility within medical applications. A classification ofmedical MR has been obtained by applying an unbiased text mining method to adatabase of 1,403 relevant research papers published over the last two decades.The classification results reveal a taxonomy for the development of medical MRresearch during this period as well as suggesting future trends. We then usethe classification to analyse the technology and applications developed in thelast five years. Our objective is to aid researchers to focus on the areaswhere technology advancements in medical MR are most needed, as well asproviding medical practitioners with a useful source of reference.

Context-Aware Mixed Reality: A Framework for Ubiquitous Interaction

  Mixed Reality (MR) is a powerful interactive technology that yields new typesof user experience. We present a semantic based interactive MR framework thatexceeds the current geometry level approaches, a step change in generatinghigh-level context-aware interactions. Our key insight is to build semanticunderstanding in MR that not only can greatly enhance user experience throughobject-specific behaviours, but also pave the way for solving complexinteraction design challenges. The framework generates semantic properties ofthe real world environment through dense scene reconstruction and deep imageunderstanding. We demonstrate our approach with a material-aware prototypesystem for generating context-aware physical interactions between the real andthe virtual objects. Quantitative and qualitative evaluations are carried outand the results show that the framework delivers accurate and fast semanticinformation in interactive MR environment, providing effective semantic levelinteractions.

Fe-vacancy order and superconductivity in PbO-type tetragonal  β-Fe1-xSe

  Several superconducting transition temperatures in the range of 30-40 K werereported in the recently discovered intercalated FeSe sytem (A1-xFe2-ySe2, A =K, Rb, Cs, Tl). Although the superconducting phases were not yet conclusivelydecided, more than one magnetic phase with particular orders of iron vacancyand/or potassium vacancy were identified, and some were argued to be the parentphase. Here we show the discovery of the presence and ordering of iron vacancyin nonintercalated FeSe (PbO-type tetragonal {\beta}-Fe1-xSe). Three types ofiron-vacancy order were found through analytical electron microscopy, and onewas identified to be nonsuperconducting and magnetic at low temperature. Thisdiscovery suggests that the rich-phases found in A1-xFe2-ySe2 are not exclusivein Fe-Se related superconductors. In addition, the magnetic {\beta}-Fe1-xSephases with particular iron-vacancy orders are more likely to be the parentphase of FeSe superconducting system, instead of the previously assigned{\beta}-Fe1+{\delta}Te.

Fabrication and superconductivity of NaxTaS2 crystals

  In this paper we report the growth and superconductivity of $Na_xTaS_2$crystals. The structural data deduced from X-ray diffraction pattern shows thatthe sample has the same structure as $2H-TaS_2$. A series of crystals withdifferent superconducting transition temperatures ($T_c$) ranging from 2.5 K to4.4 K were obtained. It is found that the $T_c$ rises with the increase of $Na$content determined by Energy-Dispersive x-ray microanalysis(EDX) of ScanningElectron Microscope (SEM) on these crystals. Compared with the resistivitycurve of un-intercalated sample $2H-TaS_2$ ($T_c$ = 0.8 K, $T_{CDW} \approx$ 70K), no signal of charge density wave (CDW) was observed in samples$Na_{0.1}TaS_2$ and $Na_{0.05}TaS_2$. However, in some samples with lower$T_c$, the CDW appears again at about 65 K. Comparison between the anisotropicresistivity indicates that the anisotropy becomes smaller in samples with more$Na$ intercalation (albeit a weak semiconducting behavior along c-axis) andthus higher $T_c$. It is thus concluded that there is a competition between thesuperconductivity and the CDW. With the increase of sodium content, the rise of$T_c$ in $Na_xTaS_2$ is caused mainly by the suppression to the CDW in$2H-TaS_2$, and the conventional rigid band model for layered dichalcogenidemay be inadequate to explain the changes induced by the slight intercalation ofsodium in $2H-TaS_2$.

Fully Point-wise Convolutional Neural Network for Modeling Statistical  Regularities in Natural Images

  Modeling statistical regularity plays an essential role in ill-posed imageprocessing problems. Recently, deep learning based methods have been presentedto implicitly learn statistical representation of pixel distributions innatural images and leverage it as a constraint to facilitate subsequent tasks,such as color constancy and image dehazing. However, the existing CNNarchitecture is prone to variability and diversity of pixel intensity withinand between local regions, which may result in inaccurate statisticalrepresentation. To address this problem, this paper presents a novel fullypoint-wise CNN architecture for modeling statistical regularities in naturalimages. Specifically, we propose to randomly shuffle the pixels in the originimages and leverage the shuffled image as input to make CNN more concerned withthe statistical properties. Moreover, since the pixels in the shuffled imageare independent identically distributed, we can replace all the largeconvolution kernels in CNN with point-wise ($1*1$) convolution kernels whilemaintaining the representation ability. Experimental results on twoapplications: color constancy and image dehazing, demonstrate the superiorityof our proposed network over the existing architectures, i.e., using1/10$\sim$1/100 network parameters and computational cost while achievingcomparable performance.

Synergy and competition between superconductivity and antiferromagnetism  in FeSe under pressure

  Temperature dependence of resistivity under high pressures with magneticfields parallel and perpendicular to the FeSe planes are measured in FeSesingle crystals. It is found that the structural transition (nematic)temperature is suppressed by pressure and ends at around $P$ = 1.18 GPa. Belowaround 0.85 GPa, the superconducting transition shows a narrow width with noindication of antiferromagnetic order. While above this pressure, thesuperconducting transition temperature drops slightly forming a small dome ofsuperconducting region with the maximum $T_c$ at around 0.825 GPa. Furthermore,just above this pressure, the superconducting transition exhibits an unusuallarge transition width which reaches about 6-8 K. This wide transition width isan intrinsic feature and does not change with magnetic field. In the highpressure region above 1.18 GPa, just accompanying the onset of superconductingtransition, an upturn of resistivity immediately occurs, which is attributed tothe formation of an antiferromagnetic order. This closely attached behavior ofsuperconductivity and antiferromagnetic order indicates that these two ordershave a synergy feature. Near the critical pressure 0.825 GPa and below, ourdata illustrate that an antiferromagnetic order emerges when superconductivityis suppressed. From the weak influence of magnetic field to theantiferromagnetic order, we conclude that it exists already below the smallsuperconducting dome in the low pressure region. This shows a competing featurebetween superconductivity and antiferromagnetic order. Our results show dualityfeatures, namely synergy and competition between superconductivity andantiferromagnetic order under pressure in FeSe.

Deeply Coupled Auto-encoder Networks for Cross-view Classification

  The comparison of heterogeneous samples extensively exists in manyapplications, especially in the task of image classification. In this paper, wepropose a simple but effective coupled neural network, called Deeply CoupledAutoencoder Networks (DCAN), which seeks to build two deep neural networks,coupled with each other in every corresponding layers. In DCAN, each deepstructure is developed via stacking multiple discriminative coupledauto-encoders, a denoising auto-encoder trained with maximum margin criterionconsisting of intra-class compactness and inter-class penalty. This singlelayer component makes our model simultaneously preserve the local consistencyand enhance its discriminative capability. With increasing number of layers,the coupled networks can gradually narrow the gap between the two views.Extensive experiments on cross-view image classification tasks demonstrate thesuperiority of our method over state-of-the-art methods.

Network Morphism

  We present in this paper a systematic study on how to morph a well-trainedneural network to a new one so that its network function can be completelypreserved. We define this as \emph{network morphism} in this research. Aftermorphing a parent network, the child network is expected to inherit theknowledge from its parent network and also has the potential to continuegrowing into a more powerful one with much shortened training time. The firstrequirement for this network morphism is its ability to handle diverse morphingtypes of networks, including changes of depth, width, kernel size, and evensubnet. To meet this requirement, we first introduce the network morphismequations, and then develop novel morphing algorithms for all these morphingtypes for both classic and convolutional neural networks. The secondrequirement for this network morphism is its ability to deal with non-linearityin a network. We propose a family of parametric-activation functions tofacilitate the morphing of any continuous non-linear activation neurons.Experimental results on benchmark datasets and typical neural networksdemonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed network morphism scheme.

Search for Small Trans-Neptunian Objects by the TAOS Project

  The Taiwan-America Occultation Survey (TAOS) aims to determine the number ofsmall icy bodies in the outer reach of the Solar System by means of stellaroccultation. An array of 4 robotic small (D=0.5 m), wide-field (f/1.9)telescopes have been installed at Lulin Observatory in Taiwan to simultaneouslymonitor some thousand of stars for such rare occultation events. Because atypical occultation event by a TNO a few km across will last for only afraction of a second, fast photometry is necessary. A special CCD readoutscheme has been devised to allow for stellar photometry taken a few times persecond. Effective analysis pipelines have been developed to process stellarlight curves and to correlate any possible flux changes among all telescopes. Afew billion photometric measurements have been collected since the routinesurvey began in early 2005. Our preliminary result of a very low detection ratesuggests a deficit of small TNOs down to a few km size, consistent with theextrapolation of some recent studies of larger (30--100 km) TNOs.

Structures of Rotating Traditional Neutron Stars and Hyperon Stars in  the Relativistic $σ-ω$ Model

  The influence of the rotation on the total masses and radii of the neutronstars are calculated by the Hartle's slow rotation formalism, while theequation of state is considered in a relativistic $\sigma-\omega$ model.Comparing with the observation, the calculating result shows that the doubleneutron star binaries are more like hyperon stars and the neutron stars ofX-ray binaries are more like traditional neutron stars. As the changes of themass and radius to a real neutron star caused by the rotation are very smallcomparing with the total mass and radius, one can see that Hartle's approximatemethod is rational to deal with the rotating neutron stars. If three propertyvalues: mass, radius and period are observed to the same neutron star, then theEOS of this neutron star could be decided entirely.

Vacuum Energy Density and Cosmological Constant in dS Brane World

  We discuss the vacuum energy density and the cosmological constant of dS$_5$brane world with a dilaton field. It is shown that a stable AdS$_4$ brane canbe constructed and gravity localization can be realized. An explicit relationbetween the dS bulk cosmological constant and the brane cosmological constantis obtained. The discrete mass spectrum of the massive scalar field in theAdS$_4$ brane is used to acquire the relationship between the branecosmological constant and the vacuum energy density. The vacuum energy densityin the brane gotten by this method is in agreement with astronomicalobservations.

Imprints of Nuclear Symmetry Energy on Properties of Neutron Stars

  Significant progress has been made in recent years in constraining thedensity dependence of nuclear symmetry energy using terrestrial nuclearlaboratory data. Around and below the nuclear matter saturation density, theexperimental constraints start to merge in a relatively narrow region. Atsupra-saturation densities, there are, however, still large uncertainties.After summarizing the latest experimental constraints on the density dependenceof nuclear symmetry energy, we highlight a few recent studies examiningimprints of nuclear symmetry energy on the binding energy, energy releaseduring hadron-quark phase transitions as well as the $w$-mode frequency anddamping time of gravitational wave emission of neutron stars.

Revealing the dual nature of magnetism in iron pnictides and iron  chalcogenides using x-ray emission spectroscopy

  We report Fe K beta x-ray emission spectroscopy study of local magneticmoments in various iron based superconductors in their paramagnetic phases.Local magnetic moments are found in all samples studied: PrFeAsO,Ba(Fe,Co)2As2, LiFeAs, Fe1+x(Te,Se), and A2Fe4Se5 (A=K, Rb, and Cs). The momentsize varies significantly across different families. Specifically, all ironpnictides samples have local moments of about 1 $\mu_B$/Fe, while FeTe andK2Fe4Se5 families have much larger local moments of ~2$\mu_B$/Fe,~3.3$\mu_B$/Fe, respectively. In addition, we find that neither carrier dopingnor temperature change affects the local moment size.

The Test of LLRF control system on superconducting cavity

  The first generation Low-Level radio frequency(LLRF) control systemindependently developed by IMPCAS, the operating frequency is 162.5MHz forChina ADS, which consists of superconducting cavity amplitude stabilitycontrol, phase stability control and the cavity resonance frequency control.The LLRF control system is based on four samples IQ quadrature demodulationtechnique consisting an all-digital closed-loop feedback control. This papercompleted the first generation of ADS LLRF control system in thelow-temperature superconducting cavities LLRF stability and performance onlinetests. Through testing, to verify the performance of LLRF control system, toanalysis on emerging issues, and in accordance with the experimental data, tosummarize LLRF control system performance to accumulate experience for thefuture control of superconducting cavities.

Service Provisioning and Profit Maximization in Network-assisted  Adaptive HTTP Streaming

  Adaptive HTTP streaming with centralized consideration of multiple streamshas gained increasing interest. It poses a special challenge that the interestsof both content provider and network operator need to be deliberately balanced.More importantly, the adaptation strategy is required to be flexible enough tobe ported to various systems that work under different network environments,QoE levels, and economic objectives. To address these challenges, we propose aMarkov Decision Process (MDP) based network-assisted adaptation framework,wherein cost of buffering, significant playback variation, bandwidth managementand income of playback are jointly investigated. We then demonstrate itspromising service provisioning and maximal profit for a mobile network in whichfair or differentiated service is required.

Attribute-Based Multi-Dimensional Scalable Access Control For Social  Media Sharing

  Media sharing is an extremely popular paradigm of social interaction inonline social networks (OSNs) nowadays. The scalable media access control isessential to perform information sharing among users with various accessprivileges. In this paper, we present a multi-dimensional scalable media accesscontrol (MD-SMAC) system based on the proposed scalable ciphertext policyattribute-based encryption (SCP-ABE) algorithm. In the proposed MD-SMAC system,fine-grained access control can be performed on the media contents encoded in amulti-dimensional scalable manner based on data consumers' diverse attributes.Through security analysis, we show that the proposed MC-SMAC system is able toresist collusion attacks. Additionally, we conduct experiments to evaluate theefficiency performance of the proposed system, especially on mobile devices.

Storytelling of Photo Stream with Bidirectional Multi-thread Recurrent  Neural Network

  Visual storytelling aims to generate human-level narrative language (i.e., anatural paragraph with multiple sentences) from a photo streams. A typicalphoto story consists of a global timeline with multi-thread local storylines,where each storyline occurs in one different scene. Such complex structureleads to large content gaps at scene transitions between consecutive photos.Most existing image/video captioning methods can only achieve limitedperformance, because the units in traditional recurrent neural networks (RNN)tend to "forget" the previous state when the visual sequence is inconsistent.In this paper, we propose a novel visual storytelling approach withBidirectional Multi-thread Recurrent Neural Network (BMRNN). First, based onthe mined local storylines, a skip gated recurrent unit (sGRU) with delaycontrol is proposed to maintain longer range visual information. Second, byusing sGRU as basic units, the BMRNN is trained to align the local storylinesinto the global sequential timeline. Third, a new training scheme with astoryline-constrained objective function is proposed by jointly consideringboth global and local matches. Experiments on three standard storytellingdatasets show that the BMRNN model outperforms the state-of-the-art methods.

Controllably releasing long-lived quantum memory for photonic  polarization qubit into multiple separate photonic channels

  We report an experiment in which long-lived quantum memories for photonicpolarization qubits (PPQs) are controllably released into any one of multipleseparate channels. The PPQs are implemented with an arbitrarily-polarizedcoherent signal light pulses at the single-photon level and are stored in coldatoms by means of electromagnetic-induced-transparency scheme. Reading laserpulses propagating along the direction at a small angle relative to quantumaxis are applied to release the stored PPQs into an output channel. By changingthe propagating directions of the read laser beam, we controllably release theretrieved PPQs into 7 different photonic output channels, respectively. At oneof the output channels, the measured maximum quantum-process fidelity for thePPQs is 94.2% at storage time of t= 0.85ms. At storage time of 6 ms, thequantum-process fidelity is still beyond 78%, the threshold for the violationof the Bell inequality. The demonstrated controllable release of the storedPPQs may extend the capabilities of the quantum information storage technique.

Distortion Bounds for Transmitting Correlated Sources with Common Part  over MAC

  This paper investigates the joint source-channel coding problem of sendingtwo correlated memoryless sources with common part over a memoryless multipleaccess channel (MAC). An inner bound and two outer bounds on the achievabledistortion region are derived. In particular, they respectively recover theexisting bounds for several special cases, such as communication without commonpart, lossless communication, and noiseless communication. When specialized toquadratic Gaussian communication case, transmitting Gaussian sources withGaussian common part over Gaussian MAC, the inner bound and outer bound areused to generate two new bounds. Numerical result shows that common partimproves the distortion of such distributed source-channel coding problem.

Generalized Common Informations: Measuring Commonness by the Conditional  Maximal Correlation

  In literature, different common informations were defined by G\'acs andK\"orner, by Wyner, and by Kumar, Li, and Gamal, respectively. In this paper,we define two generalized versions of common informations, named approximateand exact information-correlation functions, by exploiting the conditionalmaximal correlation as a commonness or privacy measure. These two generalizedcommon informations encompass the notions of G\'acs-K\"orner's, Wyner's, andKumar-Li-Gamal's common informations as special cases. Furthermore, to giveoperational characterizations of these two generalized common informations, wealso study the problems of private sources synthesis and common informationextraction, and show that the information-correlation functions are equal tothe minimum rates of commonness needed to ensure that some conditional maximalcorrelation constraints are satisfied for the centralized setting versions ofthese problems. As a byproduct, the conditional maximal correlation has beenstudied as well.

Modularized Morphing of Neural Networks

  In this work we study the problem of network morphism, an effective learningscheme to morph a well-trained neural network to a new one with the networkfunction completely preserved. Different from existing work where basicmorphing types on the layer level were addressed, we target at the centralproblem of network morphism at a higher level, i.e., how a convolutional layercan be morphed into an arbitrary module of a neural network. To simplify therepresentation of a network, we abstract a module as a graph with blobs asvertices and convolutional layers as edges, based on which the morphing processis able to be formulated as a graph transformation problem. Two atomic morphingoperations are introduced to compose the graphs, based on which modules areclassified into two families, i.e., simple morphable modules and complexmodules. We present practical morphing solutions for both of these twofamilies, and prove that any reasonable module can be morphed from a singleconvolutional layer. Extensive experiments have been conducted based on thestate-of-the-art ResNet on benchmark datasets, and the effectiveness of theproposed solution has been verified.

Optimized spin-injection efficiency and spin MOSFET operation based on  low-barrier ferromagnet/insulator/n-Si tunnel contact

  We theoretically investigate the spin injection in different FM/I/n-Si tunnelcontacts by using the lattice NEGF method. We find that the tunnel contactswith low barrier materials such as TiO$_2$ and Ta$_{2}$O$_{5}$, have much lowerresistances than the conventional barrier materials, resulting in a wider andattainable optimum parameters window for improving the spin injectionefficiency and MR ratio of a vertical spin MOSFET. Additionally, we find thespin asymmetry coefficient of TiO$_2$ tunnel contact has a negative value,while that of Ta$_{2}$O$_{5}$ contact can be tuned between positive andnegative values, by changing the parameters.

Photoinduced Domain Pattern Transformation in Ferroelectric/Dielectric  Superlattices

  The nanodomain pattern in ferroelectric/dielectric superlattices transformsto a uniform polarization state under above-bandgap optical excitation. X-rayscattering reveals a disappearance of domain diffuse scattering and anexpansion of the lattice. The reappearance of the domain pattern occurs over aperiod of seconds at room temperature, suggesting a transformation mechanism inwhich charge carriers in long-lived trap states screen the depolarizationfield. A Landau-Ginzburg-Devonshire model predicts changes in lattice parameterand a critical carrier concentration for the transformation.

Tensor product representation of topological ordered phase: necessary  symmetry conditions

  The tensor product representation of quantum states leads to a promisingvariational approach to study quantum phase and quantum phase transitions,especially topological ordered phases which are impossible to handle withconventional methods due to their long range entanglement. However, animportant issue arises when we use tensor product states (TPS) as variationalstates to find the ground state of a Hamiltonian: can arbitrary variations inthe tensors that represent ground state of a Hamiltonian be induced by localperturbations to the Hamiltonian? Starting from a tensor product state which isthe exact ground state of a Hamiltonian with $\mathbb{Z}_2$ topological order,we show that, surprisingly, not all variations of the tensors correspond to thevariation of the ground state caused by local perturbations of the Hamiltonian.Even in the absence of any symmetry requirement of the perturbed Hamiltonian,one necessary condition for the variations of the tensors to be physical isthat they respect certain $\mathbb{Z}_2$ symmetry. We support this claim bycalculating explicitly the change in topological entanglement entropy withdifferent variations in the tensors. This finding will provide importantguidance to numerical variational study of topological phase and phasetransitions. It is also a crucial step in using TPS to study universalproperties of a quantum phase and its topological order.

Interface induced high temperature superconductivity in single unit-cell  FeSe films on SrTiO3

  Searching for superconducting materials with high transition temperature (TC)is one of the most exciting and challenging fields in physics and materialsscience. Although superconductivity has been discovered for more than 100years, the copper oxides are so far the only materials with TC above 77 K, theliquid nitrogen boiling point. Here we report an interface engineering methodfor dramatically raising the TC of superconducting films. We find that oneunit-cell (UC) thick films of FeSe grown on SrTiO3 (STO) substrates bymolecular beam epitaxy (MBE) show signatures of superconducting transitionabove 50 K by transport measurement. A superconducting gap as large as 20 meVof the 1 UC films observed by scanning tunneling microcopy (STM) suggests thatthe superconductivity could occur above 77 K. The occurrence ofsuperconductivity is further supported by the presence of superconductingvortices under magnetic field. Our work not only demonstrates a powerful wayfor finding new superconductors and for raising TC, but also provides awell-defined platform for systematic study of the mechanism of unconventionalsuperconductivity by using different superconducting materials and substrates.

$T$-odd quark pair production and decay at $γγ$ collider in  the littlest Higgs model with $T$ parity in next-to-leading order QCD

  We calculate the complete next-to-leading order (NLO) QCD corrections to the$T$-odd mirror quark pair ($q_-\bar q_-=u_-\bar u_-$, $c_-\bar c_-$, $d_-\bard_-$, $s_-\bar s_-$) production in the littlest Higgs model with $T$-parity(LHT) at a high energy $\gamma \gamma$ collider. We present the dependence ofthe leading order (LO) and NLO QCD corrected cross sections on the collidingenergy $\sqrt{s}$. Our calculation includes the subsequent full weak decays ofthe final $T$-odd mirror quarks by adopting the narrow width approximation andthe exclusive 2-jet event selection criterion. We provide the LO and QCD NLOkinematic distributions of final particles. We find that the NLO QCD correctionis phase space dependent and modifies the LO cross section evidently. The$K$-factor increases noticeably when $\sqrt{s}$ approaches the threshold of theon-shell $q_-$-pair production. We conclude that it is possible to separate thesignature of the $T$-odd quark pair production from possible Standard Modelbackground by taking proper kinematic cut.

Band dependent inter-layer $f$-electron hybridization in CeRhIn$_5$

  A key issue in heavy fermion research is how subtle changes in thehybridization between the 4$f$ (5$f$) and conduction electrons can result infundamentally different ground states. CeRhIn$_5$ stands out as a particularlynotable example: replacing Rh by either Co or Ir, located above or below Rh inthe periodic table, antiferromagnetism gives way to superconductivity. In thisphotoemission study of CeRhIn$_5$, we demonstrate that the use of resonantARPES with polarized light allows to extract detailed information on the 4$f$crystal field states and details on the 4$f$ and conduction electronhybridization which together determine the ground state. We directly observeweakly dispersive Kondo resonances of $f$-electrons and identify two of thethree Ce $4f_{5/2}^{1}$ crystal-electric-field levels and band-dependenthybridization, which signals that the hybridization occurs primarily betweenthe Ce $4f$ states in the CeIn$_3$ layer and two more three-dimensional bandscomposed of the Rh $4d$ and In $5p$ orbitals in the RhIn$_2$ layer. Our resultsallow to connect the properties observed at elevated temperatures with theunusual low-temperature properties of this enigmatic heavy fermion compound.

Mesoscopic structural phase progression in photo-excited VO2 revealed by  time-resolved x-ray diffraction microscopy

  Dynamical phase separation during a solid-solid phase transition poses achallenge for understanding the fundamental processes in correlated materials.Critical information underlying a phase transition, such as localized phasecompetition, is difficult to reveal by measurements that are spatially averagedover many phase separated regions. The ability to simultaneously track thespatial and temporal evolution of such systems is essential to understandingmesoscopic processes during a phase transition. Using state-of-the-arttime-resolved hard x-ray diffraction microscopy, we directly visualize thestructural phase progression in a VO2 film upon photoexcitation. Following ahomogenous in-plane optical excitation, the phase transformation is initiatedat discrete sites and completed by the growth of one lattice structure into theother, instead of a simultaneous isotropic lattice symmetry change. Thetime-dependent x-ray diffraction spatial maps show that the in-plane phaseprogression in laser-superheated VO2 is via a displacive lattice transformationas a result of relaxation from an excited monoclinic phase into a rutile phase.The speed of the phase front progression is quantitatively measured, and isfaster than the process driven by in-plane thermal diffusion but slower thanthe sound speed in VO2. The direct visualization of localized structuralchanges in the time domain opens a new avenue to study mesoscopic processes indriven systems.

Picosecond electric-field-induced threshold switching in phase-change  materials

  Many chalcogenide glasses undergo a breakdown in electronic resistance abovea critical field strength. Known as threshold switching, this mechanism enablesfield-induced crystallization in emerging phase-change memory. Purelyelectronic as well as crystal nucleation assisted models have been employed toexplain the electronic breakdown. Here, picosecond electric pulses are used toexcite amorphous Ag$_4$In$_3$Sb$_{67}$Te$_{26}$. Field-dependent reversiblechanges in conductivity and pulse-driven crystallization are observed. Thepresent results show that threshold switching can take place within theelectric pulse on sub-picosecond time-scales - faster than crystals cannucleate. This supports purely electronic models of threshold switching andreveals potential applications as an ultrafast electronic switch.

Ultrafast terahertz-field-driven ionic response in ferroelectric  BaTiO$_3$

  The dynamical processes associated with electric field manipulation of thepolarization in a ferroelectric remain largely unknown but fundamentallydetermine the speed and functionality of ferroelectric materials and devices.Here we apply sub-picosecond duration, single-cycle terahertz pulses as anultrafast electric field bias to prototypical BaTiO$_3$ ferroelectric thinfilms with the atomic-scale response probed by femtosecond x-ray scatteringtechniques. We show that electric fields applied perpendicular to theferroelectric polarization drive large amplitude displacements of the titaniumatoms along the ferroelectric polarization axis, comparable to that of thebuilt-in displacements associated with the intrinsic polarization andincoherent across unit cells. This effect is associated with a dynamic rotationof the ferroelectric polarization switching on and then off on picosecondtimescales. These transient polarization modulations are followed by long-livedvibrational heating effects driven by resonant excitation of the ferroelectricsoft mode, as reflected in changes in the c-axis tetragonality. The ultrafaststructural characterization described here enables direct comparison withfirst-principles-based molecular dynamics simulations, with good agreementobtained.

Coexistence of Two Sharp-Mode Couplings and Their Unusual Momentum  Dependence in the Superconducting State of Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+d Superconductor  Revealed by Laser-Based Angle-Resolved Photoemission

  Super-high resolution laser-based angle-resolved photoemission measurementshave been carried out on Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+d (Bi2212) superconductors toinvestigate momentum dependence of electron coupling with collectiveexcitations (modes). Two coexisting energy scales are clearly revealed over alarge momentum space for the first time in the superconducting state of anoverdoped Bi2212 superconductor. These two energy scales exhibit distinctmomentum dependence: one keeps its energy near 78 meV over a large momentumspace while the other changes its energy from $\sim$40 meV near the antinodalregion to $\sim$70 meV near the nodal region. These observations provide a newpicture on momentum evolution of electron-boson coupling in Bi2212 thatelectrons are coupled with two sharp modes simultaneously over a large momentumspace in the superconducting states. Their unusual momentum dependence poses achallenge to our current understanding of electron-mode-coupling and its rolefor high temperature superconductivity in cuprate superconductors.

Breaking the EOS-Gravity Degeneracy with Masses and Pulsating  Frequencies of Neutron Stars

  A thorough understanding of many astrophysical phenomena associated withcompact objects requires reliable knowledge about both the equation of state(EOS)of super-dense nuclear matter and the theory of strong-field gravitysimultaneously because of the EOS-gravity degeneracy. Currently, variations ofthe neutron star (NS) mass-radius correlation from using alternative gravitytheories are much larger than those from changing the NS matter EOS withinknown constraints. At least two independent observables are required to breakthe EOS-gravity degeneracy. Using model EOSs for hybrid stars and a Yukawa-typenon-Newtonian gravity, we investigate both the mass-radius correlation andpulsating frequencies of NSs. While the maximum mass of NSs increases, thefrequencies of the $f$, $p_1$, $p_2$, and $w_I$ pulsating modes are found todecrease with the increasing strength of the Yukawa-type non-Newtonian gravity,providing a useful reference for future determination simultaneously of boththe strong-field gravity and the supranuclear EOS by combining data of x-rayand gravitational wave emissions of neutron stars.

Prime Focus Instrument of Prime Focus Spectrograph for Subaru Telescope

  The Prime Focus Spectrograph (PFS) is a new optical/near-infrared multi-fiberspectrograph design for the prime focus of the 8.2m Subaru telescope. PFS willcover 1.3 degree diameter field with 2394 fibers to complement the imagingcapability of Hyper SuprimeCam (HSC). The prime focus unit of PFS called PrimeFocus Instrument (PFI) provides the interface with the top structure of Subarutelescope and also accommodates the optical bench in which Cobra fiberpositioners are located. In addition, the acquisition and guiding (A&G)cameras, the optical fiber positioner system, the cable wrapper, the fiducialfibers, illuminator, and viewer, the field element, and the telemetry systemare located inside the PFI. The mechanical structure of the PFI was designedwith special care such that its deflections sufficiently match those of the HSCWide Field Corrector (WFC) so the fibers will stay on targets over the courseof the observations within the required accuracy.

Ultrafast THz Field Control of Electronic and Structural Interactions in  Vanadium Dioxide

  Vanadium dioxide, an archetypal correlated-electron material, undergoes aninsulator-metal transition near room temperature that exhibitselectron-correlation-driven and structurally-driven physics. Using ultrafastoptical spectroscopy and x-ray scattering we show that these processes can bedisentangled in the time domain. Specifically, following intense sub-picosecondelectric-field excitation, a partial collapse of the insulating gap occurswithin the first ps. Subsequently, this electronic reconfiguration initiates achange in lattice symmetry taking place on a slower timescale. We identify thekinetic energy increase of electrons tunneling in the strong electric field asthe driving force, illustrating a novel method to control electronicinteractions in correlated materials on an ultrafast timescale.

Computationally Recoverable Camouflage: A Universal Model for  Privacy-Aware Location-Based Services

  With the prevalence of location-based services (LBSs) supported by advancedpositioning technology, there is a dramatic increase in the transmission ofhigh-precision personal geographical data. Malicious use of these sensitivedata will threaten the privacy of LBS users. Although privacy research in LBSshas received wide attention, related works are mostly focused on some specificapplications. Due to high diversity of LBSs, it is critical to build auniversal model that is able to handle privacy protection for broader range ofapplications. In this paper, we propose a Computationally RecoverableCamouflage (CRC) model, where LBS users can preserve privacy by reportingcamouflaged location information and are able to flexibly leverage between theservice quality and the achieved privacy in different applications by adjustingthe precision of the camouflage information. In particular, we propose a novelcamouflage algorithm with formal privacy guarantee that considers both locationcontext and social context, enabling LBS users to scalably expose camouflageinformation in terms of two dimensions. Furthermore, we apply the ScalableCiphertext Policy Attribute-Based Encryption (SCP-ABE) algorithm to enforcefine-grained access control on the two-dimensional-scalable camouflageinformation. Through successful implementations on Android devices, we havedemonstrated the computational efficiency of the proposed CRC model.

Load Coupling Power Optimization in Cloud Radio Access Networks

  Recently, Cloud-based Radio Access Network (C-RAN) has been proposed as apotential solution to reduce energy cost in cellular networks. C-RANcentralizes the baseband processing capabilities of Base Stations (BSs) in acloud computing platform in the form of BaseBand Unit (BBU) pool. In C-RAN,power consumed by the traditional BS system is distributed as wirelesstransmission power of the Remote Radio Heads (RRHs) and baseband processingpower of the BBU pool. Different from previous work where wireless transmissionpower and baseband processing power are optimized individually andindependently, this paper focuses on joint optimization of allocation for thesetwo kinds of power and attempts to minimize the total power consumption subjectto Quality of Service (QoS) requirements from users in terms of data rates.First, we exploit the load coupling model to express the coupling relationsamong power, load and user data rates. Based on the load coupling mode, weformulate the joint power optimization problem in C-RAN over both wirelesstransmission power and baseband processing power. Second, we prove thatoperating at full load may not be optimal in minimizing the total powerconsumption in C-RAN. Finally, we propose an efficient iterative algorithm tosolve the target problem. Simulations have been performed to validate ourtheoretical and algorithmic work. The results show that the proposed algorithmoutperforms existing schemes (without joint power optimization) in terms ofpower consumption.

Resource Allocation in Dynamic TDD Heterogeneous Networks under Mixed  Traffic

  Recently, Dynamic Time Division Duplex (TDD) has been proposed to handle theasymmetry of traffic demand between DownLink (DL) and UpLink (UL) inHeterogeneous Networks (HetNets). However, for mixed traffic consisting of besteffort traffic and soft Quality of Service (QoS) traffic, the resourceallocation problem has not been adequately studied in Dynamic TDD HetNets. Inthis paper, we focus on such problem in a two-tier HetNet with co-channeldeployment of one Macro cell Base Station (MBS) and multiple Small cell BaseStations (SBSs) in hotspots. Different from existing work, we introduce lowpower almost blank subframes to alleviate MBS-to-SBS interference which isinherent in TDD operation. To tackle the resource allocation problem, wepropose a two-step strategy. First, from the view point of base stations, wepropose a transmission protocol and perform time resource allocation byformulating and solving a network capacity maximization problem under DL/ULtraffic demands. Second, from the view point of User Equipments (UEs), weformulate their resource allocation as a Network Utility Maximization (NUM)problem. An efficient iterative algorithm is proposed to solve the NUM problem.Simulations show the advantage of the proposed algorithm in terms of networkthroughput and UE QoS satisfaction level.

Collective Transport of Lennard-Jones Particles through One-Dimensional  Periodic Potentials

  Transport surrounding is full of all kinds of fields, like particlepotential, external potential. Under these conditions, how elements work andhow position and momentum redistribute in the diffusion? For enriching the Ficklaw in ordinary, nonequilibrium statistics physics need to be used todisintegrate the complex process. This study attempts to discuss the particletransport in the one-dimensional channel under external potential fields. Twotype of potentials, potential well and barrier do not change the potential intotal, are built during the diffusion process. There are quite distinctphenomena because of different one-dimensional periodic potentials. Wemeticulously explore reasons about why external potential field impactstransport by the subsection and statistics method. Besides, one of theevidences of Maxwell velocity distribution is confirmed in assumption of localequilibrium. In addition, we have also investigated the influence oftemperature and concentration to the collective diffusion coefficient, by avariety of external force, attaching thermodynamics analyze to these oppositephenomena. So simply is this model that the most valuable point may be an idea,which relating flux to sectional statistics of position and momentum could bereferenced in similar transport problems.

A-Lamp: Adaptive Layout-Aware Multi-Patch Deep Convolutional Neural  Network for Photo Aesthetic Assessment

  Deep convolutional neural networks (CNN) have recently been shown to generatepromising results for aesthetics assessment. However, the performance of thesedeep CNN methods is often compromised by the constraint that the neural networkonly takes the fixed-size input. To accommodate this requirement, input imagesneed to be transformed via cropping, warping, or padding, which often alterimage composition, reduce image resolution, or cause image distortion. Thus theaesthetics of the original images is impaired because of potential loss of finegrained details and holistic image layout. However, such fine grained detailsand holistic image layout is critical for evaluating an image's aesthetics. Inthis paper, we present an Adaptive Layout-Aware Multi-Patch ConvolutionalNeural Network (A-Lamp CNN) architecture for photo aesthetic assessment. Thisnovel scheme is able to accept arbitrary sized images, and learn from bothfined grained details and holistic image layout simultaneously. To enabletraining on these hybrid inputs, we extend the method by developing a dedicateddouble-subnet neural network structure, i.e. a Multi-Patch subnet and aLayout-Aware subnet. We further construct an aggregation layer to effectivelycombine the hybrid features from these two subnets. Extensive experiments onthe large-scale aesthetics assessment benchmark (AVA) demonstrate significantperformance improvement over the state-of-the-art in photo aestheticassessment.

Relativistic corrections to exclusive $χ_{cJ} + γ$ production  from $e^+ e^-$ annihilation

  We calculate in the non-relativistic QCD (NRQCD) factorization framework allleading relativistic corrections to the exclusive production of$\chi_{cJ}+\gamma$ in $e^+ e^-$ annihilation. In particular, we compute for thefirst time contributions induced by octet operators with a chromoelectricfield. The matching coefficients multiplying production long distance matrixelements (LDMEs) are determined through perturbative matching between QCD andNRQCD at the amplitude level. Technical challenges encountered in thenon-relativistic expansion of the QCD amplitudes are discussed in detail. Themain source of uncertainty comes from the not so well known LDMEs. Accountingfor it, we provide the following estimates for the production cross sections at$\sqrt{s} = 10.6\textrm{ GeV}$: $\sigma (e^+ e^- \to \chi_{ c0} + \gamma) =(1.3 \pm 0.4) \textrm{ fb}$, $\sigma (e^+ e^- \to \chi_{ c1} + \gamma) = (15.4\pm 6.7) \textrm{ fb}$, and $\sigma (e^+ e^- \to \chi_{ c2} + \gamma) = (4.7\pm 2.6) \textrm{ fb}$.

