The effect of wording on message propagation: Topic- and  author-controlled natural experiments on Twitter

  Consider a person trying to spread an important message on a social network.He/she can spend hours trying to craft the message. Does it actually matter?While there has been extensive prior work looking into predicting popularity ofsocial-media content, the effect of wording per se has rarely been studiedsince it is often confounded with the popularity of the author and the topic.To control for these confounding factors, we take advantage of the surprisingfact that there are many pairs of tweets containing the same url and written bythe same user but employing different wording. Given such pairs, we ask: whichversion attracts more retweets? This turns out to be a more difficult task thanpredicting popular topics. Still, humans can answer this question better thanchance (but far from perfectly), and the computational methods we develop cando better than both an average human and a strong competing method trained onnon-controlled data.

A Corpus of Sentence-level Revisions in Academic Writing: A Step towards  Understanding Statement Strength in Communication

  The strength with which a statement is made can have a significant impact onthe audience. For example, international relations can be strained by how themedia in one country describes an event in another; and papers can be rejectedbecause they overstate or understate their findings. It is thus important tounderstand the effects of statement strength. A first step is to be able todistinguish between strong and weak statements. However, even this problem isunderstudied, partly due to a lack of data. Since strength is inherentlyrelative, revisions of texts that make claims are a natural source of data onstrength differences. In this paper, we introduce a corpus of sentence-levelrevisions from academic writing. We also describe insights gained from ourannotation efforts for this task.

Talk it up or play it down? (Un)expected correlations between  (de-)emphasis and recurrence of discussion points in consequential U.S.  economic policy meetings

  In meetings where important decisions get made, what items receive moreattention may influence the outcome. We examine how different types ofrhetorical (de-)emphasis -- including hedges, superlatives, and contrastiveconjunctions -- correlate with what gets revisited later, controlling for itemfrequency and speaker. Our data consists of transcripts of recurring meetingsof the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee (FOMC), where important aspectsof U.S. monetary policy are decided on. Surprisingly, we find that wordsappearing in the context of hedging, which is usually considered a way toexpress uncertainty, are more likely to be repeated in subsequent meetings,while strong emphasis indicated by superlatives has a slightly negative effecton word recurrence in subsequent meetings. We also observe interesting patternsin how these effects vary depending on social factors such as status and genderof the speaker. For instance, the positive effects of hedging are morepronounced for female speakers than for male speakers.

Friendships, Rivalries, and Trysts: Characterizing Relations between  Ideas in Texts

  Understanding how ideas relate to each other is a fundamental question inmany domains, ranging from intellectual history to public communication.Because ideas are naturally embedded in texts, we propose the first frameworkto systematically characterize the relations between ideas based on theiroccurrence in a corpus of documents, independent of how these ideas arerepresented. Combining two statistics --- cooccurrence within documents andprevalence correlation over time --- our approach reveals a number of differentways in which ideas can cooperate and compete. For instance, two ideas canclosely track each other's prevalence over time, and yet rarely cooccur, almostlike a "cold war" scenario. We observe that pairwise cooccurrence andprevalence correlation exhibit different distributions. We further demonstratethat our approach is able to uncover intriguing relations between ideas throughin-depth case studies on news articles and research papers.

Neural Models for Documents with Metadata

  Most real-world document collections involve various types of metadata, suchas author, source, and date, and yet the most commonly-used approaches tomodeling text corpora ignore this information. While specialized models havebeen developed for particular applications, few are widely used in practice, ascustomization typically requires derivation of a custom inference algorithm. Inthis paper, we build on recent advances in variational inference methods andpropose a general neural framework, based on topic models, to enable flexibleincorporation of metadata and allow for rapid exploration of alternativemodels. Our approach achieves strong performance, with a manageable tradeoffbetween perplexity, coherence, and sparsity. Finally, we demonstrate thepotential of our framework through an exploration of a corpus of articles aboutUS immigration.

Dynamic Entity Representations in Neural Language Models

  Understanding a long document requires tracking how entities are introducedand evolve over time. We present a new type of language model, EntityNLM, thatcan explicitly model entities, dynamically update their representations, andcontextually generate their mentions. Our model is generative and flexible; itcan model an arbitrary number of entities in context while generating eachentity mention at an arbitrary length. In addition, it can be used for severaldifferent tasks such as language modeling, coreference resolution, and entityprediction. Experimental results with all these tasks demonstrate that ourmodel consistently outperforms strong baselines and prior work.

All Who Wander: On the Prevalence and Characteristics of Multi-community  Engagement

  Although analyzing user behavior within individual communities is an activeand rich research domain, people usually interact with multiple communitiesboth on- and off-line. How do users act in such multi-community environments?Although there are a host of intriguing aspects to this question, it hasreceived much less attention in the research community in comparison to theintra-community case. In this paper, we examine three aspects ofmulti-community engagement: the sequence of communities that users post to, thelanguage that users employ in those communities, and the feedback that usersreceive, using longitudinal posting behavior on Reddit as our main data source,and DBLP for auxiliary experiments. We also demonstrate the effectiveness offeatures drawn from these aspects in predicting users' future level ofactivity.  One might expect that a user's trajectory mimics the "settling-down" processin real life: an initial exploration of sub-communities before settling downinto a few niches. However, we find that the users in our data continually postin new communities; moreover, as time goes on, they post increasingly evenlyamong a more diverse set of smaller communities. Interestingly, it seems thatusers that eventually leave the community are "destined" to do so from the verybeginning, in the sense of showing significantly different "wandering" patternsvery early on in their trajectories; this finding has potentially importantdesign implications for community maintainers. Our multi-community perspectivealso allows us to investigate the "situation vs. personality" debate fromlanguage usage across different communities.

Winning Arguments: Interaction Dynamics and Persuasion Strategies in  Good-faith Online Discussions

  Changing someone's opinion is arguably one of the most important challengesof social interaction. The underlying process proves difficult to study: it ishard to know how someone's opinions are formed and whether and how someone'sviews shift. Fortunately, ChangeMyView, an active community on Reddit, providesa platform where users present their own opinions and reasoning, invite othersto contest them, and acknowledge when the ensuing discussions change theiroriginal views. In this work, we study these interactions to understand themechanisms behind persuasion.  We find that persuasive arguments are characterized by interesting patternsof interaction dynamics, such as participant entry-order and degree ofback-and-forth exchange. Furthermore, by comparing similar counterarguments tothe same opinion, we show that language factors play an essential role. Inparticular, the interplay between the language of the opinion holder and thatof the counterargument provides highly predictive cues of persuasiveness.Finally, since even in this favorable setting people may not be persuaded, weinvestigate the problem of determining whether someone's opinion is susceptibleto being changed at all. For this more difficult task, we show that stylisticchoices in how the opinion is expressed carry predictive power.

"You are no Jack Kennedy": On Media Selection of Highlights from  Presidential Debates

  Political speeches and debates play an important role in shaping the imagesof politicians, and the public often relies on media outlets to select bits ofpolitical communication from a large pool of utterances. It is an importantresearch question to understand what factors impact this selection process.  To quantitatively explore the selection process, we build a three- decadedataset of presidential debate transcripts and post-debate coverage. We firstexamine the effect of wording and propose a binary classification frameworkthat controls for both the speaker and the debate situation. We find thatcrowdworkers can only achieve an accuracy of 60% in this task, indicating thatmedia choices are not entirely obvious. Our classifiers outperform crowdworkerson average, mainly in primary debates. We also compare important factors fromcrowdworkers' free-form explanations with those from data-driven methods andfind interesting differences. Few crowdworkers mentioned that "contextmatters", whereas our data show that well-quoted sentences are more distinctfrom the previous utterance by the same speaker than less-quoted sentences.Finally, we examine the aggregate effect of media preferences towards differentwordings to understand the extent of fragmentation among media outlets. Byanalyzing a bipartite graph built from quoting behavior in our data, we observea decreasing trend in bipartisan coverage.

Tracing Community Genealogy: How New Communities Emerge from the Old

  The process by which new communities emerge is a central research issue inthe social sciences. While a growing body of research analyzes the formation ofa single community by examining social networks between individuals, weintroduce a novel community-centered perspective. We highlight the fact thatthe context in which a new community emerges contains numerous existingcommunities. We reveal the emerging process of communities by tracing theirearly members' previous community memberships.  Our testbed is Reddit, a website that consists of tens of thousands ofuser-created communities. We analyze a dataset that spans over a decade andincludes the posting history of users on Reddit from its inception to April2017. We first propose a computational framework for building genealogy graphsbetween communities. We present the first large-scale characterization of suchgenealogy graphs. Surprisingly, basic graph properties, such as the number ofparents and max parent weight, converge quickly despite the fact that thenumber of communities increases rapidly over time. Furthermore, we investigatethe connection between a community's origin and its future growth. Our resultsshow that strong parent connections are associated with future communitygrowth, confirming the importance of existing community structures in which anew community emerges. Finally, we turn to the individual level and examine thecharacteristics of early members. We find that a diverse portfolio acrossexisting communities is the most important predictor for becoming an earlymember in a new community.

User-level sentiment analysis incorporating social networks

  We show that information about social relationships can be used to improveuser-level sentiment analysis. The main motivation behind our approach is thatusers that are somehow "connected" may be more likely to hold similar opinions;therefore, relationship information can complement what we can extract about auser's viewpoints from their utterances. Employing Twitter as a source for ourexperimental data, and working within a semi-supervised framework, we proposemodels that are induced either from the Twitter follower/followee network orfrom the network in Twitter formed by users referring to each other using "@"mentions. Our transductive learning results reveal that incorporatingsocial-network information can indeed lead to statistically significantsentiment-classification improvements over the performance of an approach basedon Support Vector Machines having access only to textual features.

LSTMs Exploit Linguistic Attributes of Data

  While recurrent neural networks have found success in a variety of naturallanguage processing applications, they are general models of sequential data.We investigate how the properties of natural language data affect an LSTM'sability to learn a nonlinguistic task: recalling elements from its input. Wefind that models trained on natural language data are able to recall tokensfrom much longer sequences than models trained on non-language sequential data.Furthermore, we show that the LSTM learns to solve the memorization task byexplicitly using a subset of its neurons to count timesteps in the input. Wehypothesize that the patterns and structure in natural language data enableLSTMs to learn by providing approximate ways of reducing loss, butunderstanding the effect of different training data on the learnability ofLSTMs remains an open question.

What Makes a Good Team? A Large-scale Study on the Effect of Team  Composition in Honor of Kings

  Team composition is a central factor in determining the effectiveness of ateam. In this paper, we present a large-scale study on the effect of teamcomposition on multiple measures of team effectiveness. We use a dataset fromthe largest multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) game, Honor of Kings, with96 million matches involving 100 million players. We measure team effectivenessbased on team performance (whether a team is going to win), team tenacity(whether a team is going to surrender), and team rapport (whether a team usesabusive language). Our results confirm the importance of team diversity andshow that diversity has varying effects on team effectiveness: although diverseteams perform well and show tenacity in adversity, they are more likely toabuse when losing than less diverse teams. Our study also contributes to thesituation vs. personality debate and show that abusive players tend to choosethe leading role and players do not become more abusive when taking such roles.We further demonstrate the predictive power of features based on teamcomposition in prediction experiments.

On the Interplay between Social and Topical Structure

  People's interests and people's social relationships are intuitivelyconnected, but understanding their interplay and whether they can help predicteach other has remained an open question. We examine the interface of twodecisive structures forming the backbone of online social media: the graphstructure of social networks - who connects with whom - and the set structureof topical affiliations - who is interested in what. In studying thisinterface, we identify key relationships whereby each of these structures canbe understood in terms of the other. The context for our analysis is Twitter, acomplex social network of both follower relationships and communicationrelationships. On Twitter, "hashtags" are used to label conversation topics,and we examine hashtag usage alongside these social structures.  We find that the hashtags that users adopt can predict their socialrelationships, and also that the social relationships between the initialadopters of a hashtag can predict the future popularity of that hashtag. Bystudying weighted social relationships, we observe that while strongreciprocated ties are the easiest to predict from hashtag structure, they arealso much less useful than weak directed ties for predicting hashtagpopularity. Importantly, we show that computationally simple structuraldeterminants can provide remarkable performance in both tasks. While ouranalyses focus on Twitter, we view our findings as broadly applicable totopical affiliations and social relationships in a host of diverse contexts,including the movies people watch, the brands people like, or the locationspeople frequent.

Hedge detection as a lens on framing in the GMO debates: A position  paper

  Understanding the ways in which participants in public discussions frametheir arguments is important in understanding how public opinion is formed. Inthis paper, we adopt the position that it is time for morecomputationally-oriented research on problems involving framing. In theinterests of furthering that goal, we propose the following specific,interesting and, we believe, relatively accessible question: In the controversyregarding the use of genetically-modified organisms (GMOs) in agriculture, dopro- and anti-GMO articles differ in whether they choose to adopt a"scientific" tone?  Prior work on the rhetoric and sociology of science suggests that hedging maydistinguish popular-science text from text written by professional scientistsfor their colleagues. We propose a detailed approach to studying whether hedgedetection can be used to understanding scientific framing in the GMO debates,and provide corpora to facilitate this study. Some of our preliminary analysessuggest that hedges occur less frequently in scientific discourse than inpopular text, a finding that contradicts prior assertions in the literature. Wehope that our initial work and data will encourage others to pursue thispromising line of inquiry.

Science, AskScience, and BadScience: On the Coexistence of Highly  Related Communities

  When large social-media platforms allow users to easily form andself-organize into interest groups, highly related communities can arise. Forexample, the Reddit site hosts not just a group called food, but alsoHealthyFood, foodhacks, foodporn, and cooking, among others. Are these highlyrelated communities created for similar classes of reasons (e.g., to focus on asubtopic, to create a place for allegedly more "high-minded" discourse, etc.)?How do users allocate attention between such close alternatives when they areavailable or emerge over time? Are there different types of relations betweenclose alternatives such as sharing many users vs. a new community drawing awaymembers of an older one vs. a splinter group failing to cohere into a viableseparate community? We investigate the interactions between highly relatedcommunities using data from reddit.com consisting of 975M posts and commentsspanning an 8-year period. We identify a set of typical affixes that usersadopt to create highly related communities and build a taxonomy of affixes. Oneinteresting finding regarding users' behavior is: after a newer community iscreated, for several types of highly-related community pairs, users that engagein a newer community tend to be more active in their original community thanusers that do not explore, even when controlling for previous level ofengagement.

Urban Dreams of Migrants: A Case Study of Migrant Integration in  Shanghai

  Unprecedented human mobility has driven the rapid urbanization around theworld. In China, the fraction of population dwelling in cities increased from17.9% to 52.6% between 1978 and 2012. Such large-scale migration poseschallenges for policymakers and important questions for researchers. Toinvestigate the process of migrant integration, we employ a one-month completedataset of telecommunication metadata in Shanghai with 54 million users and 698million call logs. We find systematic differences between locals and migrantsin their mobile communication networks and geographical locations. Forinstance, migrants have more diverse contacts and move around the city with alarger radius than locals after they settle down. By distinguishing newmigrants (who recently moved to Shanghai) from settled migrants (who have beenin Shanghai for a while), we demonstrate the integration process of newmigrants in their first three weeks. Moreover, we formulate classificationproblems to predict whether a person is a migrant. Our classifier is able toachieve an F1-score of 0.82 when distinguishing settled migrants from locals,but it remains challenging to identify new migrants because of class imbalance.This classification setup holds promise for identifying new migrants who willsuccessfully integrate into locals (new migrants that misclassified as locals).

Online Red Packets: A Large-scale Empirical Study of Gift Giving on  WeChat

  Gift giving is a ubiquitous social phenomenon, and red packets have been usedas monetary gifts in Asian countries for thousands of years. In recent years,online red packets have become widespread in China through the WeChat platform.Exploiting a unique dataset consisting of 61 million group red packets andseven million users, we conduct a large-scale, data-driven study to understandthe spread of red packets and the effect of red packets on group activity. Wefind that the cash flows between provinces are largely consistent withprovincial GDP rankings, e.g., red packets are sent from users in the south tothose in the north. By distinguishing spontaneous from reciprocal red packets,we reveal the behavioral patterns in sending red packets: males, seniors, andpeople with more in-group friends are more inclined to spontaneously send redpackets, while red packets from females, youths, and people with less in-groupfriends are more reciprocal. Furthermore, we use propensity score matching tostudy the external effects of red packets on group dynamics. We show that redpackets increase group participation and strengthen in-group relationships,which partly explain the benefits and motivations for sending red packets.

To Stay or to Leave: Churn Prediction for Urban Migrants in the Initial  Period

  In China, 260 million people migrate to cities to realize their urban dreams.Despite that these migrants play an important role in the rapid urbanizationprocess, many of them fail to settle down and eventually leave the city. Theintegration process of migrants thus raises an important issue for scholars andpolicymakers.  In this paper, we use Shanghai as an example to investigate migrants'behavior in their first weeks and in particular, how their behavior relates toearly departure. Our dataset consists of a one-month complete dataset of 698telecommunication logs between 54 million users, plus a novel and publiclyavailable housing price data for 18K real estates in Shanghai. We find thatmigrants who end up leaving early tend to neither develop diverse connectionsin their first weeks nor move around the city. Their active areas also havehigher housing prices than that of staying migrants. We formulate a churnprediction problem to determine whether a migrant is going to leave based onher behavior in the first few days. The prediction performance improves as weinclude data from more days. Interestingly, when using the same features, theclassifier trained from only the first few days is already as good as theclassifier trained using full data, suggesting that the performance differencemainly lies in the difference between features.

On Human Predictions with Explanations and Predictions of Machine  Learning Models: A Case Study on Deception Detection

  Humans are the final decision makers in critical tasks that involve ethicaland legal concerns, ranging from recidivism prediction, to medical diagnosis,to fighting against fake news. Although machine learning models can sometimesachieve impressive performance in these tasks, these tasks are not amenable tofull automation. To realize the potential of machine learning for improvinghuman decisions, it is important to understand how assistance from machinelearning models affects human performance and human agency.  In this paper, we use deception detection as a testbed and investigate how wecan harness explanations and predictions of machine learning models to improvehuman performance while retaining human agency. We propose a spectrum betweenfull human agency and full automation, and develop varying levels of machineassistance along the spectrum that gradually increase the influence of machinepredictions. We find that without showing predicted labels, explanations aloneslightly improve human performance in the end task. In comparison, humanperformance is greatly improved by showing predicted labels (>20% relativeimprovement) and can be further improved by explicitly suggesting strongmachine performance. Interestingly, when predicted labels are shown,explanations of machine predictions induce a similar level of accuracy as anexplicit statement of strong machine performance. Our results demonstrate atradeoff between human performance and human agency and show that explanationsof machine predictions can moderate this tradeoff.

Ask Not What AI Can Do, But What AI Should Do: Towards a Framework of  Task Delegability

  Although artificial intelligence holds promise for addressing societalchallenges, issues of exactly which tasks to automate and the extent to do soremain understudied. We approach the problem of task delegability from ahuman-centered perspective by developing a framework on human perception oftask delegation to artificial intelligence. We consider four high-level factorsthat can contribute to a delegation decision: motivation, difficulty, risk, andtrust. To obtain an empirical understanding of human preferences in differenttasks, we build a dataset of 100 tasks from academic papers, popular mediaportrayal of AI, and everyday life. For each task, we administer a survey tocollect judgments of each factor and ask subjects to pick the extent to whichthey prefer AI involvement. We find little preference for full AI control and astrong preference for machine-in-the-loop designs, in which humans play theleading role. Our framework can effectively predict human preferences indegrees of AI assistance. Among the four factors, trust is the most predictiveof human preferences of optimal human-machine delegation. This frameworkrepresents a first step towards characterizing human preferences of automationacross tasks. We hope this work may encourage and aid in future efforts towardsunderstanding such individual attitudes; our goal is to inform the public andthe AI research community rather than dictating any direction in technologydevelopment.

Are All Successful Communities Alike? Characterizing and Predicting the  Success of Online Communities

  The proliferation of online communities has created exciting opportunities tostudy the mechanisms that explain group success. While a growing body ofresearch investigates community success through a single measure -- typically,the number of members -- we argue that there are multiple ways of measuringsuccess. Here, we present a systematic study to understand the relationsbetween these success definitions and test how well they can be predicted basedon community properties and behaviors from the earliest period of a community'slifetime. We identify four success measures that are desirable for mostcommunities: (i) growth in the number of members; (ii) retention of members;(iii) long term survival of the community; and (iv) volume of activities withinthe community. Surprisingly, we find that our measures do not exhibit very highcorrelations, suggesting that they capture different types of success.Additionally, we find that different success measures are predicted bydifferent attributes of online communities, suggesting that success can beachieved through different behaviors. Our work sheds light on the basicunderstanding of what success represents in online communities and whatpredicts it. Our results suggest that success is multi-faceted and cannot bemeasured nor predicted by a single measurement. This insight has practicalimplications for the creation of new online communities and the design ofplatforms that facilitate such communities.

"This is why we play": Characterizing Online Fan Communities of the NBA  Teams

  Professional sports constitute an important part of people's modern life.People spend substantial amounts of time and money supporting their favoriteplayers and teams, and sometimes even riot after games. However, how teamperformance affects fan behavior remains understudied at a large scale. Asalmost every notable professional team has its own online fan community, thesecommunities provide great opportunities for investigating this researchquestion. In this work, we provide the first large-scale characterization ofonline fan communities of professional sports teams.  Since user behavior in these online fan communities is inherently connectedto game events and team performance, we construct a unique dataset thatcombines 1.5M posts and 43M comments in NBA-related communities on Reddit withstatistics that document team performance in the NBA. We analyze the impact ofteam performance on fan behavior both at the game level and the season level.First, we study how team performance in a game relates to user activity duringthat game. We find that surprise plays an important role: the fans of the topteams are more active when their teams lose and so are the fans of the bottomteams in an unexpected win. Second, we study fan behavior over consecutiveseasons and show that strong team performance is associated with fans of lowloyalty, likely due to "bandwagon fans." Fans of the bottom teams tend todiscuss their team's future such as young talents in the roster, which may helpthem stay optimistic during adversity. Our results not only contribute tounderstanding the interplay between online sports communities and offlinecontext but also provide significant insights into sports management.

