Monte Carlo *-Minimax Search

  This paper introduces Monte Carlo *-Minimax Search (MCMS), a Monte Carlosearch algorithm for turned-based, stochastic, two-player, zero-sum games ofperfect information. The algorithm is designed for the class of of denselystochastic games; that is, games where one would rarely expect to sample thesame successor state multiple times at any particular chance node. Our approachcombines sparse sampling techniques from MDP planning with classic pruningtechniques developed for adversarial expectimax planning. We compare andcontrast our algorithm to the traditional *-Minimax approaches, as well as MCTSenhanced with the Double Progressive Widening, on four games: Pig, EinSteinW\"urfelt Nicht!, Can't Stop, and Ra. Our results show that MCMS can becompetitive with enhanced MCTS variants in some domains, while consistentlyoutperforming the equivalent classic approaches given the same amount ofthinking time.

Measuring Conflict in a Multi-Source Environment as a Normal Measure

  In a multi-source environment, each source has its own credibility. If thereis no external knowledge about credibility then we can use the informationprovided by the sources to assess their credibility. In this paper, we proposea way to measure conflict in a multi-source environment as a normal measure. Weexamine our algorithm using three simulated examples of increasing conflict andone experimental example. The results demonstrate that the proposed measure canrepresent conflict in a meaningful way similar to what a human might expect andfrom it we can identify conflict within our sources.

The Green Bank North Celestial Cap Pulsar Survey III: 45 New Pulsar  Timing Solutions

  We provide timing solutions for 45 radio pulsars discovered by the Robert C.Byrd Green Bank Telescope. These pulsars were found in the Green Bank NorthCelestial Cap pulsar survey, an all-GBT-sky survey being carried out at afrequency of 350 MHz. We include pulsar timing data from the Green BankTelescope and Low Frequency Array. Our sample includes five fully recycledmillisecond pulsars (MSPs, three of which are in a binary system), a newrelativistic double neutron star system, an intermediate mass binary pulsar, amode-changing pulsar, a 138-ms pulsar with a very low magnetic field, andseveral nulling pulsars. We have measured two post-Keplerian parameters andthus the masses of both objects in the double neutron star system. We alsoreport a tentative companion mass measurement via Shapiro delay in a binaryMSP. Two of the MSPs can be timed with high precision and have been included inpulsar timing arrays being used to search for low-frequency gravitationalwaves, while a third MSP is a member of the black widow class of binaries.Proper motion is measurable in five pulsars and we provide an estimate of theirspace velocity. We report on an optical counterpart to a new black widow systemand provide constraints on the optical counterparts to other binary MSPs. Wealso present a preliminary analysis of nulling pulsars in our sample. Theseresults demonstrate the scientific return of long timing campaigns on pulsarsof all types.

