A Mixed Graphical Model for Rhythmic Parsing

  A method is presented for the rhythmic parsing problem: Given a sequence ofobserved musical note onset times, we estimate the corresponding notated rhythmand tempo process. A graphical model is developed that represents thesimultaneous evolution of tempo and rhythm and relates these hidden quantitiesto observations. The rhythm variables are discrete and the tempo andobservation variables are continuous. We show how to compute the globally mostlikely configuration of the tempo and rhythm variables given an observation ofnote onset times. Preliminary experiments are presented on a small data set. Ageneralization to arbitrary conditional Gaussian distributions is outlined.

Jean-Christophe Yoccoz and the theory of circle diffeomorphisms

  Our aim in this note is to present some of the crucial contributions ofJean-Christophe Yoccoz to the theory of circle diffeomorphisms. We start with ashort historical account before exposing Yoccoz' work. Then we give a briefdescription of the main conceptual and technical tools of the theory, with afocus on describing Yoccoz' work and contributions.

Quantum depletion of a homogeneous Bose-Einstein condensate

  We have measured the quantum depletion of an interacting homogeneousBose-Einstein condensate, and confirmed the 70-year old theory of N.N.Bogoliubov. The observed condensate depletion is reversibly tuneable bychanging the strength of the interparticle interactions. Our atomic homogeneouscondensate is produced in an optical-box trap, the interactions are tuned via amagnetic Feshbach resonance, and the condensed fraction probed by coherenttwo-photon Bragg scattering.

An acoustic analog to the dynamical Casimir effect in a Bose-Einstein  condensate

  We have realized an acoustic analog to the Dynamical Casimir effect. Thedensity of a trapped Bose-Einstein condensate is modulated by changing the trapstiffness. We observe the creation of correlated excitations with equal andopposite momenta, and show that for a well defined modulation frequency, thefrequency of the excitations is half that of the trap modulation frequency.

Tunable source of correlated atom beams

  We use a one-dimensional optical lattice to modify the dispersion relation ofatomic matter waves. Four-wave mixing in this situation produces atom pairs intwo well defined beams. We show that these beams present a narrow momentumcorrelation, that their momenta are precisely tunable, and that this pairsource can be operated both in the regime of low mode occupancy and of highmode occupancy.

A weak lensing study of the Coma cluster

  Due to observational constraints, dark matter determinations in nearbyclusters based on weak lensing are still extremely rare, in spite of theirimportance for the determination of cluster properties independent of othermethods. We present a weak lensing study of the Coma cluster (redshift 0.024)based on deep images obtained at the CFHT. After obtaining photometricredshifts for the galaxies in our field based on deep images in the u (1x1deg2), and in the B, V, R and I bands (42'x52'), allowing us to eliminateforeground galaxies, we apply weak lensing calculations on shape measurementsperformed in the u image. We derive a map of the mass distribution in Coma, aswell as the radial shear profile, and the mass and concentration parameter atvarious radii. We obtain M_200c = 5.1+4.3-2.1 x10^14 Msun andc_200c=5.0+3.2-2.5, in good agreement with previous measurements. With deepwide field images it is now possible to analyze nearby clusters with weaklensing techniques, thus opening a broad new field of investigation.

Efficient and Cryptographically Secure Generation of Chaotic  Pseudorandom Numbers on GPU

  In this paper we present a new pseudorandom number generator (PRNG) ongraphics processing units (GPU). This PRNG is based on the so-called chaoticiterations. It is firstly proven to be chaotic according to the Devaney'sformulation. We thus propose an efficient implementation for GPU thatsuccessfully passes the BigCrush tests, deemed to be the hardest battery oftests in TestU01. Experiments show that this PRNG can generate about 20 billionof random numbers per second on Tesla C1060 and NVidia GTX280 cards. It is thenestablished that, under reasonable assumptions, the proposed PRNG can becryptographically secure. A chaotic version of the Blum-Goldwasser asymmetrickey encryption scheme is finally proposed.

The 2nd order coherence of superradiance from a Bose--Einstein  condensate

  We have measured the 2-particle correlation function of atoms from aBose--Einstein condensate participating in a superradiance process, whichdirectly reflects the 2nd order coherence of the emitted light. We compare thiscorrelation function with that of atoms undergoing stimulated emission. Whereasthe stimulated process produces correlations resembling those of a coherentstate, we find that superradiance, even in the presence of strong gain, shows acorrelation function close to that of a thermal state, just as for ordinaryspontaneous emission.

An atomic Hong-Ou-Mandel experiment

  The celebrated Hong, Ou and Mandel (HOM) effect is one of the simplestillustrations of two-particle interference, and is unique to the quantum realm.In the original experiment, two photons arriving simultaneously in the inputchannels of a beam-splitter were observed to always emerge together in one ofthe output channels. Here, we report on the realisation of a closely analogousexperiment with atoms instead of photons. This opens the prospect of testingBell's inequalities involving mechanical observables of massive particles, suchas momentum, using methods inspired by quantum optics, with an eye on theoriesof the quantum-to-classical transition. Our work also demonstrates a new way toproduce and benchmark twin-atom pairs that may be of interest for quantuminformation processing and quantum simulation.

Hard rectangles near curved hard walls: tuning the sign of the Tolman  length

  Combining analytic calculations, computer simulations, and classical densityfunctional theory we determine the interfacial tension of orientabletwo-dimensional hard rectangles near a curved hard wall. Both a circular cavityholding the particles and a hard circular obstacle surrounded by particles areconsidered. We focus on moderate bulk densities (corresponding to areafractions up to 50 percent) where the bulk phase is isotropic and vary theaspect ratio of the rectangles and the curvature of the wall. The Tolmanlength, which gives the leading curvature correction of the interfacialtension, is found to change sign at a finite density, which can be tuned viathe aspect ratio of the rectangles.

Quasiparticle energy in a strongly interacting homogeneous Bose-Einstein  condensate

  Using two-photon Bragg spectroscopy, we study the energy of particle-likeexcitations in a strongly interacting homogeneous Bose-Einstein condensate, andobserve dramatic deviations from Bogoliubov theory. In particular, at largescattering length $a$ the shift of the excitation resonance from thefree-particle energy changes sign from positive to negative. For an excitationwith wavenumber $q$, this sign change occurs at $a \approx 4/(\pi q)$, inagreement with the Feynman energy relation and the static structure factorexpressed in terms of the two-body contact. For $a \gtrsim 3/q$ we also see abreakdown of this theory, and better agreement with calculations based on theWilson operator product expansion. Neither theory explains our observationsacross all interaction regimes, inviting further theoretical efforts.

Liquid crystals of hard rectangles on flat and cylindrical manifolds

  Using the classical density functional theory of freezing and Monte Carlocomputer simulations, we explore the liquid-crystalline phase behavior of hardrectangles on flat and cylindrical manifolds. Moreover, we study the effect ofa static external field which couples to the rectangles' orientations, aligningthem towards a preferred direction. In the flat and field-free case, the bulkphase diagram involves stable isotropic, nematic, tetratic, and smectic phasesdepending on the aspect ratio and number density of the particles. The externalfield shifts the transition lines significantly and generates a binematic phaseat the expense of the tetratic phase. On a cylindrical manifold, we observetilted smectic-like order, as obtained by wrapping a smectic layer around acylinder. We find in general good agreement between our density functionalcalculations and particle-resolved computer simulations and mention possiblesetups to verify our predictions in experiments.

Giving Text Analytics a Boost

  The amount of textual data has reached a new scale and continues to grow atan unprecedented rate. IBM's SystemT software is a powerful text analyticssystem, which offers a query-based interface to reveal the valuable informationthat lies within these mounds of data. However, traditional serverarchitectures are not capable of analyzing the so-called "Big Data" in anefficient way, despite the high memory bandwidth that is available. We showthat by using a streaming hardware accelerator implemented in reconfigurablelogic, the throughput rates of the SystemT's information extraction queries canbe improved by an order of magnitude. We present how such a system can bedeployed by extending SystemT's existing compilation flow and by using amulti-threaded communication interface that can efficiently use the bandwidthof the accelerator.

Swept-Frequency Drumhead Mechanical Resonators

  We demonstrate a high-Q ($>5 \times 10^{6}$) swept-frequency membranemechanical resonator achieving octave resonance tuning via an integrated heaterand an unprecedented acceleration noise floor below 1 $\mu$g Hz$^{-1/2}$ forfrequencies above 50 kHz. This device is compatible with established batchfabrication techniques, and its optical readout is compatible withlow-coherence light sources (e.g., a monochromatic light-emitting diode). Thedevice can also be mechanically stabilized (or driven) with the same lightsource via bolometric optomechanics, and we demonstrate laser cooling from roomtemperature to 10 K. Finally, this method of frequency tuning is well-suited tofundamental studies of mechanical dissipation; in particular, we recover thedissipation spectra of many modes, identifying material damping and coupling tosubstrate resonances as the dominant loss mechanisms.

A full-fledged micromagnetic code in less than 70 lines of NumPy

  We present a complete micromagnetic finite-difference code in less than 70lines of Python. The code makes largely use of the NumPy library and computesthe exchange field by finite differences and the demagnetization field with afast convolution algorithm. Since the magnetization in finite-differencemicromagnetics is represented by a multi-dimensional array and the NumPylibrary features a rich interface for this data structure, the presented codeis a good starting point for the development of novel algorithms.

Polarization Independent Atomic Prism filter for removing Amplified  Spontaneous Emission

  We create an optical frequency, polarization independent, narrow band-passfilter of 1.3 GHz (3 dB bandwidth), using the steep dispersion near theRubidium D1 atomic transitions within a prism-shaped vapor cell. This enablesus to clean the amplified spontaneous emission from a laser by more than 3orders of magnitude. Such a filter could find uses in fields such as quantuminformation processing and Raman spectroscopy.

Residually finite-dimensional operator algebras

  We study non-selfadjoint operator algebras that can be entirely understoodvia their finite-dimensional representations. In contrast with the elementarymatricial description of finite-dimensional $\mathrm{C}^*$-algebras, in thenon-selfadjoint setting we show that an additional level of flexibility must beallowed. Motivated by this peculiarity, we consider a natural non-selfadjointnotion of residual finite-dimensionality. We identify sufficient conditions forthe tensor algebra of a $\mathrm{C}^*$-correspondence to enjoy this property.To clarify the connection with the usual self-adjoint notion, we investigatethe residual finite-dimensionality of the minimal and maximal$\mathrm{C}^*$-covers associated to an operator algebra.

Mechanical tunning of adhesion through micro-patterning of elastic  surfaces

  We present an investigation of the role of micropatterning on adhesionproperties at soft deformable polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS)/ acrylic adhesiveinterfaces. Contrary to what has been observed for low aspect ratio rigidpatterns, where the adhesion enhancement was found to only result from theincrease of interfacial area due to patterning, we show that for soft elasticarrays of cylindrical pillars, the elastic deformation of the patterns can leadto noticeable extra adhesion increase. The effect of the geometricalcharacteristics of the patterning for hexagonal arrays of PDMS micropillars onthe adhesion energy are presented. We show that varying the size of the patternallows one to tune the adhesion energy, and that this adhesion enhancementsaturates when the pillars become too close to each other, due a coupling ofthe elastic deformation fields inside the underlying substrate. A mechanicalmodel has been developed and found in good quantitative agreement withexperimental data, with as unique fitting parameter the rupture criteria forthe adhesive on the top of the pillars. Such a rupture a rupture criteria canthus be extracted from systematic experiments on controlled patterned surfaces.This criteria remain sensitive to the chemistry of the surfaces.

NNLL resummation for stop pair-production at the LHC

  The production of supersymmetric stop-antistop pairs at the Large HadronCollider (LHC) is studied including corrections from soft-gluon resummation upto next-to-next-to-leading logarithmic (NNLL) accuracy in the Mellin-spaceapproach. Additionally, corrections to the hard-matching coefficient atone-loop and Coulomb contributions at two-loop order are considered. The NNLLcorrections enhance the cross section for all stop masses at centre-of-massenergies of 8 and 13 TeV compared to the previously calculated predictions atnext-to-leading logarithmic (NLL) accuracy. Furthermore, a slight increase inthe dependence on the additional stop-mixing parameters is observed.

Steganalyzer performances in operational contexts

  Steganography and steganalysis are two important branches of the informationhiding field of research. Steganography methods consist in hiding informationin such a way that the secret message is undetectable for the uninitiated.Steganalyzis encompasses all the techniques that attempt to detect the presenceof such hidden information. This latter is usually designed by makingclassifiers able to separate innocent images from steganographied onesaccording to their differences on well-selected features. We wonder, in thisarticle whether it is possible to construct a kind of universal steganalyzerwithout any knowledge regarding the steganographier side. The effects on theclassification score of a modification of either parameters or methods betweenthe learning and testing stages are then evaluated, while the possibility toimprove the separation score by merging many methods during learning stage isdeeper investigated.

A Second Order Derivatives based Approach for Steganography

  Steganography schemes are designed with the objective of minimizing a defineddistortion function. In most existing state of the art approaches, thisdistortion function is based on image feature preservation. Since smoothregions or clean edges define image core, even a small modification in theseareas largely modifies image features and is thus easily detectable. On thecontrary, textures, noisy or chaotic regions are so difficult to model that thefeatures having been modified inside these areas are similar to the initialones. These regions are characterized by disturbed level curves. This workpresents a new distortion function for steganography that is based on secondorder derivatives, which are mathematical tools that usually evaluate levelcurves. Two methods are explained to compute these partial derivatives and havebeen completely implemented. The first experiments show that these approachesare promising.

Universal Scaling Laws in the Dynamics of a Homogeneous Unitary Bose Gas

  We study the dynamics of an initially degenerate homogeneous Bose gas afteran interaction quench to the unitary regime at a magnetic Feshbach resonance.As the cloud decays and heats, it exhibits a crossover from degenerate- tothermal-gas behaviour, both of which are characterised by universal scalinglaws linking the particle-loss rate to the total atom number $N$. In thedegenerate and thermal regimes the per-particle loss rate is $\propto N^{2/3}$and $N^{26/9}$, respectively. The crossover occurs at a universal kineticenergy per particle and at a universal time after the quench, in units ofenergy and time set by the gas density. By slowly sweeping the magnetic fieldaway from the resonance and creating a mixture of atoms and molecules, we alsomap out the dynamics of correlations in the unitary gas, which display auniversal temporal scaling with the gas density, and reach a steady state whilethe gas is still degenerate.

From single-particle excitations to sound waves in a box-trapped atomic  BEC

  We experimentally and theoretically investigate the lowest-lying axialexcitation of an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate in a cylindrical box trap. Bytuning the atomic density, we observe how the nature of the mode changes from asingle-particle excitation (in the low-density limit) to a sound wave (in thehigh-density limit). We elucidate the physics of the crossover between the twolimiting regimes using Bogoliubov theory, and find excellent agreement with themeasurements. Finally, for large excitation amplitudes we observe anon-exponential decay of the mode, suggesting a nonlinear many-body decaymechanism.

Steganalysis via a Convolutional Neural Network using Large Convolution  Filters for Embedding Process with Same Stego Key

  For the past few years, in the race between image steganography andsteganalysis, deep learning has emerged as a very promising alternative tosteganalyzer approaches based on rich image models combined with ensembleclassifiers. A key knowledge of image steganalyzer, which combines relevantimage features and innovative classification procedures, can be deduced by adeep learning approach called Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN). These kindof deep learning networks is so well-suited for classification tasks based onthe detection of variations in 2D shapes that it is the state-of-the-art inmany image recognition problems. In this article, we design a CNN-basedsteganalyzer for images obtained by applying steganography with a uniqueembedding key. This one is quite different from the previous study of {\em Qianet al.} and its successor, namely {\em Pibre et al.} The proposed architectureembeds less convolutions, with much larger filters in the final convolutionallayer, and is more general: it is able to deal with larger images and lowerpayloads. For the "same embedding key" scenario, our proposal outperforms allother steganalyzers, in particular the existing CNN-based ones, and defeatsmany state-of-the-art image steganography schemes.

Difficulties in Probing Nuclear Physics: A Study of $^{44}$Ti and  $^{56}$Ni

  The nucleosynthetic yield from a supernova explosion depends upon a varietyof effects: progenitor evolution, explosion process, details of the nuclearnetwork, and nuclear rates. Especially in studies of integrated stellar yields,simplifications reduce these uncertainties. But nature is much more complex,and to actually study nuclear rates, we will have to understand the full,complex set of processes involved in nucleosynthesis. Here we discuss a few ofthese complexities and detail how the NuGrid collaboration will address them.

44Ti and 56Ni in core-collapse supernovae

  We investigate the physical conditions where 44Ti and 56Ni are created incore-collapse supernovae. In this preliminary work we use a series ofpost-processing network calculations with parametrized expansion profiles thatare representative of the wide range of temperatures, densities andelectron-to-baryon ratios found in 3D supernova simulations. Critical flowsthat affect the final yields of 44Ti and 56Ni are assessed.

Transition from Cassie to Wenzel state in patterned soft elastomer  sliding contacts

  In this paper, we presented an experimental and theoretical analysis of theformation of the contact between a smooth elastomer lens and an elastomersubstrate micropatterned with hexagonal arrays of cylindrical pillars. We showusing a JKR model coupled with a full description of the deformation of thesubstrate between the pillars that the transition between the top to the fullcontact is obtain when the normal load is increased above a well predictedthreshold. We have also shown that above the onset of full contact, theevolution of the area of full contact was obeying a simple scaling.

Measuring the photon coalescence time-window in the continuous-wave  regime for resonantly driven semiconductor quantum dots

  We revisit Mandel's notion that the degree of coherence equals the degree ofindistinguishability by performing Hong-Ou-Mandel- (HOM-)type interferometrywith single photons elastically scattered by a cw resonantly driven excitonictransition of an InAs/GaAs epitaxial quantum dot. We present a comprehensivestudy of the temporal profile of the photon coalescence phenomenon which showsthat photon indistinguishability can be tuned by the excitation laser source,in the same way as their coherence time. A new figure of merit, the coalescencetime window, is introduced to quantify the delay below which two photons areindistinguishable. This criterion sheds new light on the interpretation of HOMexperiments under cw excitation, particularly when photon coherence times arelonger than the temporal resolution of the detectors. The photonindistinguishability is extended over unprecedented time scales beyond thedetectors' response time, thus opening new perspectives to conducting quantumoptics with single photons and conventional detectors.

Self-amplification of solid friction in interleaved assemblies

  It is nearly impossible to separate two interleaved phonebooks when held bytheir spines. A full understanding of this astonishing demonstration of solidfriction in complex assemblies has remained elusive. In this Letter, we reporton experiments with controlled booklets and show that the force requiredincreases sharply with the number of sheets. A model captures the effect of thenumber of sheets, their thickness and the overlapping distance. Furthermore,the data collapse onto a self-similar master curve with one dimensionlessamplification parameter. In addition to solving a long-standing familiarenigma, this model system provides a framework with which one can accuratelymeasure friction forces and coefficients at low loads, and that has relevanceto complex assemblies from the macro to the nanoscale.

Stress concentration in periodically rough hertzian contact: Hertz to  soft-flat-punch transition

  We report on the elastic contact between a spherical lens and a patternedsubstrate, composed of an hexagonal lattice of cylindrical pillars. The stressfield and the size of the contact area are obtained by means of numericalmethods (discrete Green's function superposition and iterative bisection-likemethods). For small indentations, a transition from a Hertzian to aBoussinesq-Cerruti-like behavior is observed when the surface fraction of thesubstrate that is covered by pillars is increased. In particular, we present amaster curve defined by two dimensionless parameters, which allows to predictthe stress at the center of contact region in terms of the surface fractionoccupied by pillars. The transition between the limiting contact regimes,Hertzian and Boussinesq-Cerruti-like, is well described by a rational function.Additionally, a simple model to describe the Boussines-Cerruti-like contactbetween the lens and a single elastic pillar, which takes into account thepillar geometry and the elastic properties of the two bodies, is presented.

Thermal Brillouin noise observed in silicon optomechanical waveguide

  Stimulated Brillouin scattering was recently observed in nanoscale siliconwaveguides. Surprisingly, thermally-driven photon-phonon conversion in thesestructures had not yet been reported. Here, we inject an optical probe in asuspended silicon waveguide and measure its phase fluctuations at the output.We observe mechanical resonances around 8 GHz with a scattering efficiency of$10^{-5} \, \text{m}^{-1}$ and a signal-to-noise ratio of 2. The observationsare in agreement with a theory of noise in these waveguides as well as withstimulated measurements. Our scheme may simplify measurements of mechanicalsignatures in nanoscale waveguides and is a step towards a better grasp ofthermal noise in these new continuum optomechanical systems.

A completely bounded non-commutative Choquet boundary for operator  spaces

  We develop a completely bounded counterpart to the non-commutative Choquetboundary of an operator space. We show how the class of completely boundedlinear maps is too large to accommodate our purposes. To overcome thisobstacle, we isolate the subset of completely bounded linear maps on anoperator space admitting a dilation of the same norm which is multiplicative onthe generated $C^*$-algebra. We view such maps as analogues of the familiarunital completely contractive maps, and we exhibit many of their structuralproperties. Of particular interest to us are those maps which are extremal withrespect to a natural dilation order. We establish the existence of extremalsand show that they have a certain unique extension property. In particular,they give rise to $*$-homomorphisms which we use to associate to anyrepresentation of an operator space an entire scale of $C^*$-envelopes. Weconjecture that these $C^*$-envelopes are all $*$-isomorphic, and verify thisin some important cases.

A two-particle, four-mode interferometer for atoms

  We present a free-space interferometer to observe two-particle interferenceof a pair of atoms with entangled momenta. The source of atom pairs is aBose--Einstein condensate subject to a dynamical instability, and theinterferometer is realized using Bragg diffraction on optical lattices, in thespirit of our recent Hong--Ou--Mandel experiment. We report an observationconsistent with an entangled state at the input of the interferometer. Weexplain how our current setup can be extended to enable a test of a Bellinequality on momentum observables.

Optomechanical antennas for on-chip beam-steering

  Rapid and low-power control over the direction of a radiating light field isa major challenge in photonics and a key enabling technology for emergingsensors and free-space communication links. Current approaches based on bulkymotorized components are limited by their high cost and power consumption,while on-chip optical phased arrays face challenges in scaling andprogrammability. Here, we propose a solid-state approach to beam-steering usingoptomechanical antennas. We combine recent progress in simultaneous control ofoptical and mechanical waves with remarkable advances in on-chip optical phasedarrays to enable low-power and full two-dimensional beam-steering ofmonochromatic light. We present a design of a silicon photonic system made ofphotonic-phononic waveguides that achieves 44$^{\circ}$ field of view with$880$ resolvable spots by sweeping the mechanical wavelength with about amilliwatt of mechanical power. Using mechanical waves as nonreciprocal, activegratings allows us to quickly reconfigure the beam direction, beam shape, andthe number of beams. It also enables us to distinguish between light that wesend and receive.

Quantitative modelling of nutrient-limited growth of bacterial colonies  in microfluidic cultivation

  Nutrient gradients and limitations play a pivotal role in the life of allmicrobes, both in their natural habitat as well as in artificial, microfluidicsystems. Spatial concentration gradients of nutrients in densely packed cellconfigurations may locally affect the bacterial growth leading to heterogeneousmicropopulations. A detailed understanding and quantitative modelling ofcellular behaviour under nutrient limitations is thus highly desirable. We usemicrofluidic cultivations to investigate growth and microbial behaviour of themodel organism Corynebacterium glutamicum under well-controlled conditions.With a reaction-diffusion type model, parameters are extracted fromsteady-state experiments with a one-dimensional nutrient gradient.Subsequentially, we employ particle-based simulations with these parameters topredict the dynamical growth of a colony in two dimensions. Comparing theresults of those simulations with microfluidic experiments yields excellentagreement. Our modelling approach lays the foundation for a betterunderstanding of dynamic microbial growth processes, both in nature and inapplied biotechnology.

First Measurement of Neutrinos in the BAO Spectrum

  The existence of the cosmic neutrino background is a fascinating predictionof the hot big bang model. These neutrinos were a dominant component of theenergy density in the early universe and, therefore, played an important rolein the evolution of cosmological perturbations. In particular, fluctuations inthe neutrino density produced a distinct shift in the temporal phase of soundwaves in the primordial plasma, which has recently been detected in the cosmicmicrowave background (CMB). In this paper, we report on the first measurementof this neutrino-induced phase shift in the spectrum of baryon acousticoscillations (BAO) of the BOSS DR12 data. Constraining the acoustic scale usingPlanck data, and marginalizing over the effects of neutrinos in the CMB, wefind evidence for a non-zero phase shift at greater than 95% confidence. Wealso demonstrate the robustness of this result in simulations and forecasts.Besides being a new measurement of the cosmic neutrino background, our work isthe first application of the BAO signal to early universe physics and anon-trivial confirmation of the standard cosmological history.

Engineering cryogenic setups for 100-qubit scale superconducting circuit  systems

  A robust cryogenic infrastructure in form of a wired, thermally optimizeddilution refrigerator is essential for present and future solid-state basedquantum processors. Here, we engineer an extensible cryogenic setup, whichminimizes passive and active heat loads, while guaranteeing rapid qubit controland readout. We review design criteria for qubit drive lines, flux lines, andoutput lines used in typical experiments with superconducting circuits anddescribe each type of line in detail. The passive heat load of stainless steeland NbTi coaxial cables and the active load due to signal dissipation aremeasured, validating our robust and extensible concept for thermal anchoring ofattenuators, cables, and other microwave components. Our results are importantfor managing the heat budget of future large-scale quantum computers based onsuperconducting circuits.

Trapping and sympathetic cooling of single thorium ions for spectroscopy

  Precision optical spectroscopy of exotic ions reveals accurate informationabout nuclear properties such as charge radii and magnetic and quadrupolemoments. Thorium ions exhibit unique nuclear properties with high relevance fortesting symmetries of nature. We report loading and trapping of single$^{232}$Th$^+$ ions in a linear Paul trap, embedded into and sympatheticallycooled by small crystals of trapped $^{40}$Ca$^+$ ions. Trapped Th ions areidentified in a non-destructive manner from the voids in the laser-induced Cafluorescence pattern emitted by the crystal, and alternatively, by means of atime-of-flight signal when extracting ions from the Paul trap and steering theminto an external detector. We have loaded and handled a total of 231 individualTh ions. We reach a time-of-flight detection efficiency of $\gtrsim 95\, \%$,consistent with the quantum efficiency of the detector. The sympathetic coolingtechnique is expected to be applicable for other isotopes and various chargestates of Th e.g., for future studies of $^{229m}$Th.

Synthetic dissipation and cascade fluxes in a turbulent quantum gas

  Scale-invariant fluxes are the defining property of turbulent cascades, buttheir direct measurement is a notorious problem. Here we perform such ameasurement for a direct energy cascade in a turbulent quantum gas. Using atime-periodic force, we inject energy at a large lengthscale and generate acascade in a uniformly-trapped Bose gas. The adjustable trap depth provides ahigh-momentum cutoff $k_{\textrm{D}}$, which realises a synthetic dissipationscale. This gives us direct access to the particle flux across a momentum shellof radius $k_{\textrm{D}}$, and the tunability of $k_{\textrm{D}}$ allows for aclear demonstration of the zeroth law of turbulence: we observe that for fixedforcing the particle flux vanishes as $k_{\textrm{D}}^{-2}$ in thedissipationless limit $k_{\textrm{D}}\rightarrow \infty$, while the energy fluxis independent of $k_{\textrm{D}}$. Moreover, our time-resolved measurementsgive unique access to the pre-steady-state dynamics, when the cascade frontpropagates in momentum space.

A Time-of-Flight Imaging System Based on Resonant Photoelastic  Modulation

  A time-of-flight (ToF) imaging system is proposed and its working principledemonstrated. To realize this system, a new device, a free-space optical mixer,is designed and fabricated. A scene is illuminated (flashed) with a megahertzlevel amplitude modulated light source and the reflected light from the sceneis collected by a receiver. The receiver consists of the free-space opticalmixer, comprising a photoelastic modulator sandwiched between polarizers,placed in front of a standard CMOS image sensor. This free-space optical mixerdownconverts the megahertz level amplitude modulation frequencies into thetemporal bandwidth of the image sensor. A full scale extension of thedemonstrated system will be able to measure phases and Doppler shifts for thebeat tones and use signal processing techniques to estimate the distance andvelocity of each point in the illuminated scene with high accuracy.

Lithium Niobate Piezo-optomechanical Crystals

  Demonstrating a device that efficiently connects light, motion, andmicrowaves is an outstanding challenge in classical and quantum photonics. Wemake significant progress in this direction by demonstrating a photonic crystalresonator on thin-film lithium niobate (LN) that simultaneously supportshigh-$Q$ optical and mechanical modes, and where the mechanical modes arecoupled piezoelectrically to microwaves. For optomechanical coupling, weleverage the photoelastic effect in LN by optimizing the device parameters torealize coupling rates $g_0/2\pi\approx 120~\textrm{kHz}$. An optomechanicalcooperativity $C>1$ is achieved leading to phonon lasing. Electrodes on thenanoresonator piezoelectrically drive mechanical waves on the beam that arethen read out optically allowing direct observation of the phononic bandgap.Quantum coupling efficiency of $\eta\approx10^{-8}$ from the input microwaveport to the localized mechanical resonance is measured. Improvements of themicrowave circuit and electrode geometry can increase this efficiency and bringintegrated ultra-low-power modulators and quantum microwave-to-opticalconverters closer to reality.

Dual-comb spectroscopy for high-temperature reaction kinetics

  In the current study, a quantum-cascade-laser-based dual-comb spectrometer(DCS) was used to paint a detailed picture of a 1.0 ms high-temperaturereaction between propyne and oxygen. The DCS interfaced with a shock tube toprovide pre-ignition conditions of 1225 K, 2.8 atm, and 2% p-C3H4/18% O2/Ar.The spectrometer consisted of two free-running, non-stabilized frequency combseach emitting at 179 wavelengths between 1174 and 1233 cm-1. A free spectralrange, f_r, of 9.86 GHz and a difference in comb spacing, (Delta f_r), of 5MHz, enabled 4 microsecond time resolution. The accuracy of the spectrometerwas confirmed using a suite of independent laser diagnostics and indicates anauspicious future for DCS in high-energy reaction kinetics.

Toward convergence of effective field theory simulations on digital  quantum computers

  We report results for simulating an effective field theory to compute thebinding energy of the deuteron nucleus using a hybrid algorithm on atrapped-ion quantum computer. Two increasingly complex unitary coupled-clusteransaetze have been used to compute the binding energy to within a few percentfor successively more complex Hamiltonians. By increasing the complexity of theHamiltonian, allowing more terms in the effective field theory expansion andcalculating their expectation values, we present a benchmark for quantumcomputers based on their ability to scalably calculate the effective fieldtheory with increasing accuracy. Our result of $E_4=-2.220 \pm 0.179$MeV may becompared with the exact Deuteron ground-state energy $-2.224$MeV. We alsodemonstrate an error mitigation technique using Richardson extrapolation on iontraps for the first time. The error mitigation circuit represents a record fordeepest quantum circuit on a trapped-ion quantum computer.

Numerical investigation of lenses with substructures using the  perturbative method

  We present a statistical study of the effects induced by substructures on thedeflection potential of dark matter halos in the strong lensing regime. Thisinvestigation is based on the pertubative solution around the Einstein radius(Alard 2007) in which all the information on the deflection potential isspecified by only a pair of one-dimensional functions on this ring. Usingdirect comparison with ray-tracing solutions, we found that the iso-contours oflensed images predicted by the pertubative solution is reproduced with a meanerror on their radial extension of less than 1% - in units of the Einsteinradius, for reasonable substructure masses. It demonstrates the efficiency ofthe approximation to track possible signatures of substructures. We haveevaluated these two fields and studied their properties for different lensconfigurations modelled either through massive dark matter halos from acosmological N-body simulation, or via toy models of Monte Carlo distributionof substructures embedded in a triaxial Hernquist potential. As expected, theangular power spectra of these two fields tend to have larger values for largerharmonic numbers when substructures are accounted for and they can beapproximated by power-laws, whose values are fitted as a function of theprofile and the distribution of the substructures.

Universal Prethermal Dynamics of Bose Gases Quenched to Unitarity

  Understanding strongly correlated phases of matter, from the quark-gluonplasma to neutron stars, and in particular the dynamics of such systems, $e.g.$following a Hamiltonian quench, poses a fundamental challenge in modernphysics. Ultracold atomic gases are excellent quantum simulators for theseproblems, thanks to tuneable interparticle interactions and experimentallyresolvable intrinsic timescales. In particular, they give access to the unitaryregime where the interactions are as strong as allowed by quantum mechanics.Following years of experiments on unitary Fermi gases, unitary Bose gases haverecently emerged as a new experimental frontier. They promise exciting newpossibilities, including universal physics solely controlled by the gas densityand novel forms of superfluidity. Here, through momentum- and time-resolvedstudies, we explore both degenerate and thermal homogeneous Bose gases quenchedto unitarity. In degenerate samples we observe universal post-quench dynamicsin agreement with the emergence of a prethermal state with a universal nonzerocondensed fraction. In thermal gases, dynamic and thermodynamic propertiesgenerically depend on both the gas density $n$ and temperature $T$, but we findthat they can still be expressed in terms of universal dimensionless functions.Surprisingly, the total quench-induced correlation energy is independent of thegas temperature. Our measurements provide quantitative benchmarks and newchallenges for theoretical understanding.

The Role of Management Practices in Closing the Productivity Gap

  There is no doubt that management practices are linked to the productivityand performance of a company. However, research findings are mixed. This paperprovides a multi-disciplinary review of the current evidence of such arelationship and offers suggestions for further exploration. We provide anextensive review of the literature in terms of research findings from studiesthat have been trying to measure and understand the impact that individualmanagement practices and clusters of management practices have on productivityat different levels of analysis. We focus our review on Operations Management(om) and Human Resource Management (hrm) practices as well as jointapplications of these practices. In conclusion, we can say that taken as awhole, the research findings are equivocal. Some studies have found a positiverelationship between the adoption of management practices and productivity,some negative and some no association whatsoever. We believe that the lack ofuniversal consensus on the effect of the adoption of complementary managementpractices might be driven either by measurement issues or by the level ofanalysis. Consequently, there is a need for further research. In particular,for a multi-level approach from the lowest possible level of aggregation up tothe firm-level of analysis in order to assess the impact of managementpractices upon the productivity of firms.

NuGrid: Toward High Precision Double-Degenerate Merger Simulations with  SPH in 3D

  We present preliminary results from recent high-resolution double-degeneratemerger simulations with the Smooth Particle Hydrodynamics (SPH) technique. Weput particular emphasis on verification and validation in our effort and showthe importance of details in the initial condition setup for the final outcomeof the simulation. We also stress the dynamical importance of including shocksin the simulations. These results represent a first step toward a suite ofsimulations that will shed light on the question whether double-degeneratemergers are a viable path toward type 1a supernovae. In future simulations, wewill make use of the capabilities of the NuGrid collaboration inpost-processing SPH particle trajectories with a complete nuclear network tofollow the detailed nuclear reactions during the dynamic merger phase.

Nucleosynthesis Calculations from Core-Collapse Supernovae

  We review some of the uncertainties in calculating nucleosynthetic yields,focusing on the explosion mechanism. Current yield calculations tend to eitheruse a piston, energy injection, or enhancement of neutrino opacities to drivean explosion. We show that the energy injection, or more accurately, an entropyinjection mechanism is best-suited to mimic our current understanding of theconvection-enhanced supernova engine. The enhanced neutrino-opacity techniqueis in qualitative disagreement with simulations of core-collapse supernovae andwill likely produce errors in the yields. But piston-driven explosions are themost discrepant. Piston-driven explosion severely underestimate the amount offallback, leading to order-of-magnitude errors in the yields of heavy elements.To obtain yields accurate to the factor of a few level, we must use entropy orenergy injection and this has become the NuGrid collaboration approach.

Nucleosynthetic Yields from "Collapsars"

  The "collapsar" engine for gamma-ray bursts invokes as its energy source thefailure of a normal supernova and the formation of a black hole. Here wepresent the results of the first three-dimensional simulation of the collapseof a massive star down to a black hole, including the subsequent accretion andexplosion. The explosion differs significantly from the axisymmetric scenarioobtained in two-dimensional simulations; this has important consequences forthe nucleosynthetic yields. We compare the nucleosynthetic yields to those ofhypernovae. Calculating yields from three-dimensional explosions requires newstrategies in post-process nucleosynthesis; we discuss NuGrid's plan forthree-dimensional yields.

Spatial Distribution of Nucleosynthesis Products in Cassiopeia A:  Comparison Between Observations and 3D Explosion Models

  We examine observed heavy element abundances in the Cassiopeia A supernovaremnant as a constraint on the nature of the Cas A supernova. We compare bulkabundances from 1D and 3D explosion models and spatial distribution of elementsin 3D models with those derived from X-ray observations. We also examine thecospatial production of 26Al with other species. We find that the most reliableindicator of the presence of 26Al in unmixed ejecta is a very low S/Si ratio(~0.05). Production of N in O/S/Si-rich regions is also indicative. Thebiologically important element P is produced at its highest abundance in thesame regions. Proxies should be detectable in supernova ejecta with highspatial resolution multiwavelength observations.

