The MADlib Analytics Library or MAD Skills, the SQL

  MADlib is a free, open source library of in-database analytic methods. Itprovides an evolving suite of SQL-based algorithms for machine learning, datamining and statistics that run at scale within a database engine, with no needfor data import/export to other tools. The goal is for MADlib to eventuallyserve a role for scalable database systems that is similar to the CRAN libraryfor R: a community repository of statistical methods, this time written withscale and parallelism in mind. In this paper we introduce the MADlib project,including the background that led to its beginnings, and the motivation for itsopen source nature. We provide an overview of the library's architecture anddesign patterns, and provide a description of various statistical methods inthat context. We include performance and speedup results of a core designpattern from one of those methods over the Greenplum parallel DBMS on amodest-sized test cluster. We then report on two initial efforts atincorporating academic research into MADlib, which is one of the project'sgoals. MADlib is freely available at http://madlib.net, and the project is openfor contributions of both new methods, and ports to additional databaseplatforms.

Query-Driven Sampling for Collective Entity Resolution

  Probabilistic databases play a preeminent role in the processing andmanagement of uncertain data. Recently, many database research efforts haveintegrated probabilistic models into databases to support tasks such asinformation extraction and labeling. Many of these efforts are based on batchoriented inference which inhibits a realtime workflow. One important task isentity resolution (ER). ER is the process of determining records (mentions) ina database that correspond to the same real-world entity. Traditional pairwiseER methods can lead to inconsistencies and low accuracy due to localizeddecisions. Leading ER systems solve this problem by collectively resolving allrecords using a probabilistic graphical model and Markov chain Monte Carlo(MCMC) inference. However, for large datasets this is an extremely expensiveprocess. One key observation is that, such exhaustive ER process incurs a hugeup-front cost, which is wasteful in practice because most users are interestedin only a small subset of entities. In this paper, we advocate pay-as-you-goentity resolution by developing a number of query-driven collective ERtechniques. We introduce two classes of SQL queries that involve ER operators--- selection-driven ER and join-driven ER. We implement novel variations ofthe MCMC Metropolis Hastings algorithm to generate biased samples andselectivity-based scheduling algorithms to support the two classes of ERqueries. Finally, we show that query-driven ER algorithms can converge andreturn results within minutes over a database populated with the extractionfrom a newswire dataset containing 71 million mentions.

Comparing Clinical Judgment with MySurgeryRisk Algorithm for  Preoperative Risk Assessment: A Pilot Study

  Background: Major postoperative complications are associated with increasedshort and long-term mortality, increased healthcare cost, and adverse long-termconsequences. The large amount of data contained in the electronic healthrecord (EHR) creates barriers for physicians to recognize patients most atrisk. We hypothesize, if presented in an optimal format, information fromdata-driven predictive risk algorithms for postoperative complications canimprove physician risk assessment. Methods: Prospective, non-randomized,interventional pilot study of twenty perioperative physicians at a quarterlyacademic medical center. Using 150 clinical cases we compared physicians' riskassessment before and after interaction with MySurgeryRisk, a validatedmachine-learning algorithm predicting preoperative risk for six majorpostoperative complications using EHR data. Results: The area under the curve(AUC) of MySurgeryRisk algorithm ranged between 0.73 and 0.85 and wassignificantly higher than physicians' risk assessments (AUC between 0.47 and0.69) for all postoperative complications except cardiovascular complications.The AUC for repeated physician's risk assessment improved by 2% to 5% for allcomplications with the exception of thirty-day mortality. Physicians' riskassessment for acute kidney injury and intensive care unit admission longerthan 48 hours significantly improved after knowledge exchange, resulting in netreclassification improvement of 12.4% and 16%, respectively. Conclusions: Thevalidated MySurgeryRisk algorithm predicted postoperative complications withequal or higher accuracy than pilot cohort of physicians using availableclinical preoperative data. The interaction with algorithm significantlyimproved physicians' risk assessment.

