Over-Parameterized Deep Neural Networks Have No Strict Local Minima For  Any Continuous Activations

  In this paper, we study the loss surface of the over-parameterized fullyconnected deep neural networks. We prove that for any continuous activationfunctions, the loss function has no bad strict local minimum, both in theregular sense and in the sense of sets. This result holds for any convex andcontinuous loss function, and the data samples are only required to be distinctin at least one dimension. Furthermore, we show that bad local minima do existfor a class of activation functions.

Multiple Vectors Propagation of Epidemics in Complex Networks

  This letter investigates the epidemic spreading in two-vectors propagationnetwork (TPN). We propose detailed theoretical analysis that allows us toaccurately calculate the epidemic threshold and outbreak size. It is found thatthe epidemics can spread across the TPN even if two sub-single-vectorpropagation networks (SPNs) of TPN are well below their respective epidemicthresholds. Strong positive degree-degree correlation of nodes in TPN couldlead to a much lower epidemic threshold and a relatively smaller outbreak size.However, the average similarity between the neighbors from different SPNs ofnodes has no effect on the epidemic threshold and outbreak size.

Complementary Normalized Compressive Ghost Imaging with Entangled  Photons

  We demonstrate a compressive normalized ghost imaging system with entangledphotons employing complementary compressive imaging (CCI) technique. Thequantum ghost image reconstruction was achieved at only 19.53% sampling ratioof raster scanning. With the special +1/-1 type sensing matrix and appropriateoptimal algorithm, the photon utilization efficiency and robustness of theimaging system is enhanced significantly. Our results reveal the greatpotential of CCI technique applied in quantum imaging and other quantum opticsfield such as quantum charactering and quantum state tomography to use theinformation loaded in each photon with high efficiency.

Prediction of Stable Cu-Li Binary Intermetallics From First-Principles  Calculations: Stoichiometries, Crystal Structures, and Physical Properties

  Towards a resolution of the longstanding controversy regarding the existenceof Cu-Li intermetallic compounds, we extensively investigate the phasestability of Cu-Li intermetallics with various possible stoichiometries at zerotemperature and pressure using a global structure searching method. It is foundthat Cu-Li intermetallics can exist stably at atmospheric pressure, and threestable intermetallics (Fmmm Cu1Li2, Fd m Cu2Li1 and P Cu7Li1,) are identified.Electronic structure analysis reveals that although the three stable phases aremetallic, covalent Cu-Cu and ionic Cu-Li bonds are found in the threestructures. Moreover, the 3d states of copper atoms are mostly responsible forbond formations in the Cu-Li intermetallics. For all the predicted Cu-Liintermetallics, the effect of Cu concentration on structure, mechanical andthermodynamic properties are calculated systematically.

Experimental Estimation of Average Fidelity of a Clifford Gate on a  7-qubit Quantum Processor

  Quantum gates in experiment are inherently prone to errors that need to becharacterized before they can be corrected. Full characterization via quantumprocess tomography is impractical and often unnecessary. For most practicalpurposes, it is enough to estimate more general quantities such as the averagefidelity. Here we use a unitary 2-design and twirling protocol for efficientlyestimating the average fidelity of Clifford gates, to certify a 7-qubitentangling gate in a nuclear magnetic resonance quantum processor. Comparedwith more than $10^8$ experiments required by full process tomography, weconducted 1656 experiments to satisfy a statistical confidence level of 99%.The average fidelity of this Clifford gate in experiment is 55.1%, and rises to87.5% if the infidelity due to decoherence is removed. The entire protocol ofcertifying Clifford gates is efficient and scalable, and can easily be extendedto any general quantum information processor with minor modifications.

Quantum Spacetime on a Quantum Simulator

  We experimentally simulate the spin networks -- a fundamental description ofquantum spacetime at the Planck level. We achieve this by simulating quantumtetrahedra and their interactions. The tensor product of these quantumtetrahedra comprises spin networks. In this initial attempt to study quantumspacetime by quantum information processing, on a four-qubit nuclear magneticresonance quantum simulator, we simulate the basic module -- comprising fivequantum tetrahedra -- of the interactions of quantum spacetime. By measuringthe geometric properties on the corresponding quantum tetrahedra and simulatetheir interactions, our experiment serves as the basic module that representsthe Feynman diagram vertex in the spin-network formulation of quantumspacetime.

LCANet: End-to-End Lipreading with Cascaded Attention-CTC

  Machine lipreading is a special type of automatic speech recognition (ASR)which transcribes human speech by visually interpreting the movement of relatedface regions including lips, face, and tongue. Recently, deep neural networkbased lipreading methods show great potential and have exceeded the accuracy ofexperienced human lipreaders in some benchmark datasets. However, lipreading isstill far from being solved, and existing methods tend to have high error rateson the wild data. In this paper, we propose LCANet, an end-to-end deep neuralnetwork based lipreading system. LCANet encodes input video frames using astacked 3D convolutional neural network (CNN), highway network andbidirectional GRU network. The encoder effectively captures both short-term andlong-term spatio-temporal information. More importantly, LCANet incorporates acascaded attention-CTC decoder to generate output texts. By cascading CTC withattention, it partially eliminates the defect of the conditional independenceassumption of CTC within the hidden neural layers, and this yields notablyperformance improvement as well as faster convergence. The experimental resultsshow the proposed system achieves a 1.3% CER and 3.0% WER on the GRID corpusdatabase, leading to a 12.3% improvement compared to the state-of-the-artmethods.

On the existence of attractors

  On every compact 3-manifold, we build a non-empty open set $\cU$ of$\Diff^1(M)$ such that, for every $r\geq 1$, every $C^r$-generic diffeomorphism$f\in\cU\cap \Diff^r(M)$ has no topological attractors. On higher dimensionalmanifolds, one may require that $f$ has neither topological attractors nortopological repellers. Our examples have finitely many quasi attractors. Forflows, we may require that these quasi attractors contain singular points.Finally we discuss alternative definitions of attractors which may be betteradapted to generic dynamics.

A secure and effective anonymous authentication scheme for roaming  service in global mobility networks

  Recently, Mun et al. analyzed Wu et al.'s authentication scheme and proposeda enhanced anonymous authentication scheme for roaming service in globalmobility networks. However, through careful analysis, we find that Mun et al.'sscheme is vulnerable to impersonation attacks, off-line password guessingattacks and insider attacks, and cannot provide user friendliness, user'sanonymity, proper mutual authentication and local verification. To remedy theseweaknesses, in this paper we propose a novel anonymous authentication schemefor roaming service in global mobility networks. Security and performanceanalyses show the proposed scheme is more suitable for the low-power andresource-limited mobile devices, and is secure against various attacks and hasmany excellent features.

Multiple routes transmitted epidemics on multiplex networks

  This letter investigates the multiple routes transmitted epidemic process onmultiplex networks. We propose detailed theoretical analysis that allows us toaccurately calculate the epidemic threshold and outbreak size. It is found thatthe epidemic can spread across the multiplex network even if all the networklayers are well below their respective epidemic thresholds. Strong positivedegree-degree correlation of nodes in multiplex network could lead to a muchlower epidemic threshold and a relatively smaller outbreak size. However, theaverage similarity of neighbors from different layers of nodes has no obviouseffect on the epidemic threshold and outbreak size.

Electric dipole sheets in BaTiO$_{3}$/BaZrO$_{3}$ superlattices

  We investigate two-dimensional electric dipole sheets in the superlatticemade of BaTiO$_{3}$ and BaZrO$_{3}$ using first-principles-based Monte-Carlosimulations and density functional calculations. Electric dipole domains andcomplex patterns are observed and the complex dipole structures with varioussymmetries (e.g. Pma2, Cmcm and Pmc2_{1}) are further confirmed by densityfunctional calculations, which are found to be almost degenerate in energy withthe ferroelectric ground state of the Amm2 symmetry, therefore stronglyresembling magnetic sheets. More complex dipole patterns, including vorticesand anti-vortices, are also observed, which may constitute the intermediatestates that overcome the high energy barrier of different polarizationorientations previously predicted by Lebedev\onlinecite{Lebedev2013}. We alsoshow that such system possesses large electrostrictive effects that may betechnologically important.

Observing Fermion Pair Instability of the Sachdev-Ye-Kitaev Model on a  Quantum Spin Simulator

  The Sachdev-Ye-Kitaev (SYK) model has become increasingly of great interestin studying exotic non-fermi liquid states without quasiparticle excitations,holography duality to Einstein gravity, and quantum chaos. However, theunnatural form of its Hamiltonian, including its strong randomness and fullynonlocal fermion interaction, makes its experimental investigation anintractable challenge. A promising solution to overcome this challenge isquantum simulation, whose role will be more pronounced particularly in thefuture when more qubits can be handled. We have enough control to demonstrate afirst step towards quantum simulation of this system. We observed the fermionparing instability of the non-Fermi liquid state and the chaotic-nonchaotictransition at simulated temperatures, as was predicted by previous theory.These results demonstrate the feasibility of experimentally simulating the SYKmodel. It opens a new experimental avenue towards investigating the keyfeatures of non-Fermi liquid states, as well as the quantum chaotic systems andthe AdS/CFT duality, thanks to the rich physics of the SYK model.

An efficient dynamic ID based remote user authentication scheme using  self-certified public keys for multi-server environment

  Recently, Li et al. analyzed Lee et al.'s multi-server authentication schemeand proposed a novel smart card and dynamic ID based remote user authenticationscheme for multi-server environments. They claimed that their scheme can resistseveral kinds of attacks. However, through careful analysis, we find that Li etal.'s scheme is vulnerable to stolen smart card and offline dictionary attack,replay attack, impersonation attack and server spoofing attack. By analyzingother similar schemes, we find that the certain type of dynamic ID basedmulti-server authentication scheme in which only hash functions are used and noregistration center participates in the authentication and session keyagreement phase is hard to provide perfect efficient and secure authentication.To compensate for these shortcomings, we improve the recently proposed Liao etal.'s multi-server authentication scheme which is based on pairing andself-certified public keys, and propose a novel dynamic ID based remote userauthentication scheme for multi-server environments. Liao et al.'s scheme isfound vulnerable to offline dictionary attack and denial of service attack, andcannot provide user's anonymity and local password verification. However, ourproposed scheme overcomes the shortcomings of Liao et al.'s scheme. Securityand performance analyses show the proposed scheme is secure against variousattacks and has many excellent features.

Enhancing quantum control by bootstrapping a quantum processor of 12  qubits

  Accurate and efficient control of quantum systems is one of the centralchallenges for quantum information processing. Current state-of-the-artexperiments rarely go beyond 10 qubits and in most cases demonstrate onlylimited control. Here we demonstrate control of a 12-qubit system, and showthat the system can be employed as a quantum processor to optimize its owncontrol sequence by using measurement-based feedback control (MQFC). The finalproduct is a control sequence for a complex 12-qubit task: preparation of a12-coherent state. The control sequence is about 10% more accurate than the onegenerated by the standard (classical) technique, showing that MQFC can correctfor unknown imperfections. Apart from demonstrating a high level of controlover a relatively large system, our results show that even at the 12-qubitlevel, a quantum processor can be a useful lab instrument. As an extension ofour work, we propose a method for combining the MQFC technique with a twirlingprotocol, to optimize the control sequence that produces a desired Cliffordgate.

Existence of nontrivial solutions for asymptotically linear periodic  Schrödinger equations

  We study the Schr\"{o}dinger equation: \begin{equation} - \Deltau+V(x)u=f(x,u) ,\qquad u\in H^{1}(\mathbb{R}^{N}),\nonumber \end{equation}where $V$ is periodic and $f$ is periodic in the $x$-variables, 0 is in a gapof the spectrum of the operator $-\Delta+V$ and $f$ is asymptotically linear as$|u|\rightarrow+\infty.$ We prove that under some asymptotically linearassumptions for $f$, this equation has a nontrivial solution. Our assumptionsfor $f$ are different from the classical assumptions raised by G. B. Li and A.Szulkin in

Quantum State and Process Tomography via Adaptive Measurements

  We investigate quantum state tomography (QST) for pure states and quantumprocess tomography (QPT) for unitary channels via $adaptive$ measurements. Fora quantum system with a $d$-dimensional Hilbert space, we first propose anadaptive protocol where only $2d-1$ measurement outcomes are used to accomplishthe QST for $all$ pure states. This idea is then extended to study QPT forunitary channels, where an adaptive unitary process tomography (AUPT) protocolof $d^2+d-1$ measurement outcomes is constructed for any unitary channel. Weexperimentally implement the AUPT protocol in a 2-qubit nuclear magneticresonance system. We examine the performance of the AUPT protocol when appliedto Hadamard gate, $T$ gate ($\pi/8$ phase gate), and controlled-NOT gate,respectively, as these gates form the universal gate set for quantuminformation processing purpose. As a comparison, standard QPT is alsoimplemented for each gate. Our experimental results show that the AUPT protocolthat reconstructing unitary channels via adaptive measurements significantlyreduce the number of experiments required by standard QPT without considerableloss of fidelity.

DeepRebirth: Accelerating Deep Neural Network Execution on Mobile  Devices

  Deploying deep neural networks on mobile devices is a challenging task.Current model compression methods such as matrix decomposition effectivelyreduce the deployed model size, but still cannot satisfy real-time processingrequirement. This paper first discovers that the major obstacle is theexcessive execution time of non-tensor layers such as pooling and normalizationwithout tensor-like trainable parameters. This motivates us to design a novelacceleration framework: DeepRebirth through "slimming" existing consecutive andparallel non-tensor and tensor layers. The layer slimming is executed atdifferent substructures: (a) streamline slimming by merging the consecutivenon-tensor and tensor layer vertically; (b) branch slimming by mergingnon-tensor and tensor branches horizontally. The proposed optimizationoperations significantly accelerate the model execution and also greatly reducethe run-time memory cost since the slimmed model architecture contains lesshidden layers. To maximally avoid accuracy loss, the parameters in newgenerated layers are learned with layer-wise fine-tuning based on boththeoretical analysis and empirical verification. As observed in the experiment,DeepRebirth achieves more than 3x speed-up and 2.5x run-time memory saving onGoogLeNet with only 0.4% drop of top-5 accuracy on ImageNet. Furthermore, bycombining with other model compression techniques, DeepRebirth offers anaverage of 65ms inference time on the CPU of Samsung Galaxy S6 with 86.5% top-5accuracy, 14% faster than SqueezeNet which only has a top-5 accuracy of 80.5%.

Efficient Incremental Learning for Mobile Object Detection

  Object detection models shipped with camera-equipped mobile devices cannotcover the objects of interest for every user. Therefore, the incrementallearning capability is a critical feature for a robust and personalized mobileobject detection system that many applications would rely on. In this paper, wepresent an efficient yet practical system, IMOD, to incrementally train anexisting object detection model such that it can detect new object classeswithout losing its capability to detect old classes. The key component of IMODis a novel incremental learning algorithm that trains end-to-end for one-stageobject detection deep models only using training data of new object classes.Specifically, to avoid catastrophic forgetting, the algorithm distills threetypes of knowledge from the old model to mimic the old model's behavior onobject classification, bounding box regression and feature extraction. Inaddition, since the training data for the new classes may not be available, areal-time dataset construction pipeline is designed to collect training imageson-the-fly and automatically label the images with both category and boundingbox annotations. We have implemented IMOD under both mobile-cloud andmobile-only setups. Experiment results show that the proposed system can learnto detect a new object class in just a few minutes, including both datasetconstruction and model training. In comparison, traditional fine-tuning basedmethod may take a few hours for training, and in most cases would also need atedious and costly manual dataset labeling step.

600-T Magnetic Fields due to Cold Electron Flow in a simple Cu-Coil  irradiated by High Power Laser pulses

  A new simple mechanism due to cold electron flow to produce strong magneticfield is proposed. A 600-T strong magnetic field is generated in the free spaceat the laser intensity of 5.7x10^15 Wcm^-2. Theoretical analysis indicates thatthe magnetic field strength is proportional to laser intensity. Such a strongmagnetic field offers a new experimental test bed to study laser-plasmaphysics, in particular, fast-ignition laser fusion research and laboratoryastrophysics.

A Separability-Entanglement Classifier via Machine Learning

  The problem of determining whether a given quantum state is entangled lies atthe heart of quantum information processing, which is known to be an NP-hardproblem in general. Despite the proposed many methods such as the positivepartial transpose (PPT) criterion and the k-symmetric extendibility criterionto tackle this problem in practice, none of them enables a general, effectivesolution to the problem even for small dimensions. Explicitly, separable statesform a high-dimensional convex set, which exhibits a vastly complicatedstructure. In this work, we build a new separability-entanglement classifierunderpinned by machine learning techniques. Our method outperforms the existingmethods in generic cases in terms of both speed and accuracy, opening up theavenues to explore quantum entanglement via the machine learning approach.

Correlation Analysis of a Large Sample of Narrow-Line Seyfert 1  Galaxies: Linking Central Engine and Host Properties

  We present a statistical study of a large, homogeneously analyzed sample ofnarrow-line Seyfert 1 (NLS1) galaxies, accompanied by a comparison sample ofbroad-line Seyfert 1 (BLS1) galaxies. Optical emission-line and continuumproperties are subjected to correlation analyses, in order to identify the maindrivers of active galactic nuclei (AGN) correlation space, and of NLS1 galaxiesin particular. For the first time, we have established the density of thenarrow-line region as a key parameter in Eigenvector 1 space, as important asthe Eddington ratio L/Ledd. This is important because it links the propertiesof the central engine with the properties of the host galaxy; i.e., theinterstellar medium (ISM). We also confirm previously found correlationsinvolving the line width of Hbeta, and the strength of the FeII and [OIII]5007emission lines, and we confirm the important role played by L/Ledd in drivingthe properties of NLS1 galaxies. A spatial correlation analysis shows thatlarge-scale environments of the BLS1 and NLS1 galaxies of our sample aresimilar. If mergers are rare in our sample, accretion-driven winds on the onehand, or bar-driven inflows on the other hand, may account for the strongdependence of Eigenvector 1 on ISM density.

The Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Benchmark: Object Detection and Tracking

  With the advantage of high mobility, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) are usedto fuel numerous important applications in computer vision, delivering moreefficiency and convenience than surveillance cameras with fixed camera angle,scale and view. However, very limited UAV datasets are proposed, and they focusonly on a specific task such as visual tracking or object detection inrelatively constrained scenarios. Consequently, it is of great importance todevelop an unconstrained UAV benchmark to boost related researches. In thispaper, we construct a new UAV benchmark focusing on complex scenarios with newlevel challenges. Selected from 10 hours raw videos, about 80,000representative frames are fully annotated with bounding boxes as well as up to14 kinds of attributes (e.g., weather condition, flying altitude, camera view,vehicle category, and occlusion) for three fundamental computer vision tasks:object detection, single object tracking, and multiple object tracking. Then, adetailed quantitative study is performed using most recent state-of-the-artalgorithms for each task. Experimental results show that the currentstate-of-the-art methods perform relative worse on our dataset, due to the newchallenges appeared in UAV based real scenes, e.g., high density, small object,and camera motion. To our knowledge, our work is the first time to explore suchissues in unconstrained scenes comprehensively.

Sublattice symmetry breaking and Kondo-effect enhancement in strained  graphene

  Kondo physics in doped monolayer graphene is predicted to exhibit unusualfeatures due to the linear vanishing of the pristine material's density ofstates at the Dirac point. Despite several attempts, conclusive experimentalobservation of the phenomenon remains elusive. One likely obstacle toidentification is a very small Kondo temperature scale $T_K$ in situationswhere the chemical potential lies near the Dirac point. We propose tailoredmechanical deformations of monolayer graphene as a means of revealing uniquefingerprints of the Kondo effect. Inhomogeneous strains are known to producespecific alternating changes in the local density of states (LDOS) away fromthe Dirac point that signal sublattice symmetry breaking effects. Small LDOSchanges can be amplified in an exponential increase or decrease of $T_K$ formagnetic impurities attached at different locations. We illustrate thisbehavior in two deformation geometries: a circular 'bubble' and a long fold,both described by Gaussian displacement profiles. We calculate the LDOS changesfor modest strains and analyze the relevant Anderson impurity model describinga magnetic atom adsorbed in either a 'top-site' or a 'hollow-site'configuration. Numerical renormalization-group solutions of the impurity modelsuggest that higher expected $T_K$ values, combined with distinctive spatialpatterns under variation of the point of graphene attachment, make the top-siteconfiguration the more promising for experimental observation of signatures ofthe Kondo effect. The strong strain sensitivity of $T_K$ may lift top-siteKondo physics into the range experimentally accessible using local probes suchas scanning tunneling microscopy.

Realistic Adversarial Examples in 3D Meshes

  Highly expressive models such as deep neural networks (DNNs) have been widelyapplied to various applications and achieved increasing success. However,recent studies show that such machine learning models appear to be vulnerableagainst adversarial examples. So far adversarial examples have been heavilyexplored for 2D images, while few works have conducted to understandvulnerabilities of 3D objects which exist in real world, where 3D objects areprojected to 2D domains by photo taking for different learning (recognition)tasks. In this paper, we consider adversarial behaviors in practical scenariosby manipulating the shape and texture of a given 3D mesh representation of anobject. Our goal is to project the optimized "adversarial meshes" to 2D with aphotorealistic renderer, and still able to mislead different machine learningmodels. Extensive experiments show that by generating unnoticeable 3Dadversarial perturbation on shape or texture for a 3D mesh, the correspondingprojected 2D instance can either lead classifiers to misclassify the victimobject as an arbitrary malicious target, or hide any target object within thescene from object detectors. We conduct human studies to show that ouroptimized adversarial 3D perturbation is highly unnoticeable for human visionsystems. In addition to the subtle perturbation for a given 3D mesh, we alsopropose to synthesize a realistic 3D mesh and put in a scene mimicking similarrendering conditions and therefore attack different machine learning models.In-depth analysis of transferability among various 3D renderers and vulnerableregions of meshes are provided to help better understand adversarial behaviorsin real-world.

Data Priming Network for Automatic Check-Out

  Automatic Check-Out (ACO) receives increased interests in recent years. Animportant component of the ACO system is the visual item counting, whichrecognize the categories and counts of the items chosen by the customers.However, the training of such a system is challenged by the domain adaptationproblem, in which the training data are images from isolated items while thetesting images are for collections of items. Existing methods solve thisproblem with data augmentation using synthesized images, but the imagesynthesis leads to unreal images that affect the training process. In thispaper, we propose a new data priming method to solve the domain adaptationproblem. Specifically, we first use pre-augmentation data priming, in which weremove distracting background from the training images and select images withrealistic view angles by the pose pruning method. In the post-augmentationstep, we train a data priming network using detection and countingcollaborative learning, and select more reliable images from testing data totrain the final visual item tallying network. Experiments on the large scaleRetail Product Checkout (RPC) dataset demonstrate the superiority of theproposed method, i.e., we achieve 80.51% checkout accuracy compared with 56.68%of the baseline methods.

Measurements of Charge Transfer Efficiency in a Proton-irradiated Swept  Charge Device

  Charge Coupled Devices (CCDs) have been successfully used in several lowenergy X-ray astronomical satellite over the past two decades. Their highenergy resolution and high spatial resolution make them an perfect tool for lowenergy astronomy, such as formation of galaxy clusters and environment of blackholes. The Low Energy X-ray Telescope (LE) group is developing Swept ChargeDevice (SCD) for the Hard X-ray Modulation Telescope (HXMT) satellite. SCD is aspecial low energy X-ray CCD, which could be read out a thousand times fasterthan traditional CCDs, simultaneously keeping excellent energy resolution. Atest method for measuring the charge transfer efficiency (CTE) of a prototypeSCD has been set up. Studies of the charge transfer inefficiency (CTI) havebeen performed at a temperature range of operation, with a proton-irradiatedSCD.

Efficient laser noise reduction by locking to an actively stabilized  fiber interferometer with 10 km arm imbalance

  We report a laser noise reduction method by locking it to an activelystabilized fiber-based Mach Zehnder interferometer with 10 km optical fiber toachieve large arm imbalance. An acousto optic modulator is used forinterferometer stabilization and heterodyne detection. The out-of-loopfrequency noise is reduced by more than 90 dB for Fourier frequency at 1 Hz.This structure presents an efficient laser noise reduction method both at highFourier frequency and low Fourier frequency. The signal of stabilized laser istransferred via a 10 km fiber link with a fractional frequency stability of1.12 times 10-16 at 1 s. Compared with the fractional frequency stability ofthat when the interferometer is not stabilized, more than one order ofmagnitude is improved.

Nuclear Fusion in Laser-Driven Counter-Streaming Collisionless Plasmas

  Nuclear fusion reactions are the most important processes in nature to powerstars and produce new elements, and lie at the center of the understanding ofnucleosynthesis in the universe. It is critically important to study thereactions in full plasma environments that are close to true astrophysicalconditions. By using laser-driven counter-streaming collisionless plasmas, westudied the fusion D$+$D$\rightarrow n +^3$He in a Gamow-like window around 27keV. The results show that astrophysical nuclear reaction yield can bemodulated significantly by the self-generated electromagnetic fields and thecollective motion of the plasma. This plasma-version mini-collider may providea novel tool for studies of astrophysics-interested nuclear reactions in plasmawith tunable energies in earth-based laboratories.

Evaluation at the Remote Site for Ultra-stable Radio Frequency  Dissemination via Fiber Links

  We demonstrate a method which can directly evaluate the radio frequencytransfer quality via fiber links at the remote site. Coherent signals are firsttransferred to the same remote site via two stabilized fiber links. The twosignals at the remote site are compared with each other. The relative phasedifference can represent transfer stability loss. This evaluation method at theremote site has been compared with the traditional one with which the signal isevaluated at the local site. The two results match perfectly. It indicates thatthe method is available to evaluate the transfer performance of radio frequency(RF) dissemination in such applications as antenna array systems.

Optimal experiment design for quantum state tomography

  Quantum state tomography is an indispensable but costly part of many quantumexperiments. Typically, it requires measurements to be carried in a number ofdifferent settings on a fixed experimental setup. The collected data is ofteninformationally overcomplete, with the amount of information redundancydepending on the particular set of measurement settings chosen. This raises aquestion about how should one optimally take data so that the number ofmeasurement settings necessary can be reduced. Here, we cast this problem interms of integer programming. For a given experimental setup, standard integerprogramming algorithms allow us to find the minimum set of readout operationsthat can realize a target tomographic task. We apply the method to certainbasic and practical state tomographic problems in nuclear magnetic resonanceexperimental systems. The results show that, considerably less readoutoperations can be found using our technique than it was by using the previousgreedy search strategy. Therefore, our method could be helpful for simplifyingmeasurement schemes so as to minimize the experimental effort.

Experimental realization of post-selected weak measurements on an NMR  quantum processor

  The ability to post-select the outcomes of an experiment is a usefultheoretical concept and experimental tool. In the context of weak measurementspost-selection can lead to surprising results such as complex weak valuesoutside the range of eigenvalues. Usually post-selection is realized by aprojective measurement, which is hard to implement in ensemble systems such asNMR. We demonstrate the first experiment of a weak measurement withpost-selection on an NMR quantum information processor. Our setup is used formeasuring complex weak values and weak values outside the range of eigenvalues.The scheme for overcoming the problem of post-selection in an ensemble quantumcomputer is general and can be applied to any circuit-based implementation.This experiment paves the way for studying and exploiting post-selection andweak measurements in systems where projective measurements are hard to realizeexperimentally.

Chiral Quantum Walks

  Given its importance to many other areas of physics, from condensed matterphysics to thermodynamics, time-reversal symmetry has had relatively littleinfluence on quantum information science. Here we develop a network-basedpicture of time-reversal theory, classifying Hamiltonians and quantum circuitsas time-symmetric or not in terms of the elements and geometries of theirunderlying networks. Many of the typical circuits of quantum informationscience are found to exhibit time-asymmetry. Moreover, we show thattime-asymmetry in circuits can be controlled using local gates only, and cansimulate time-asymmetry in Hamiltonian evolution. We experimentally implement afundamental example in which controlled time-reversal asymmetry in apalindromic quantum circuit leads to near-perfect transport. Our results pavethe way for using time-symmetry breaking to control coherent transport, andimply that time-asymmetry represents an omnipresent yet poorly understoodeffect in quantum information science.

Approximation of Reachable Set for Coherently Controlled Open Quantum  Systems: Application to Quantum State Engineering

  Precisely characterizing and controlling realistic open quantum systems isone of the most challenging and exciting frontiers in quantum sciences andtechnologies. In this Letter, we present methods of approximately computingreachable sets for coherently controlled dissipative systems, which is veryuseful for assessing control performances. We apply this to a two-qubit nuclearmagnetic resonance spin system and implement some tasks of quantum control inopen systems at a near optimal performance in view of purity: e.g., increasingpolarization and preparing pseudo-pure states. Our work shows interesting andpromising applications of environment-assisted quantum dynamics.

Waterproofed Photomultiplier Tube Assemblies for the Daya Bay Reactor  Neutrino Experiment

  In the Daya Bay Reactor Neutrino Experiment 960 20-cm-diameter waterproofphotomultiplier tubes are used to instrument three water pools as Cherenkovdetectors for detecting cosmic-ray muons. Of these 960 photomultiplier tubes,341 are recycled from the MACRO experiment. A systematic program was undertakento refurbish them as waterproof assemblies. In the context of passing the waterleakage check, a success rate better than 97% was achieved. Details of thedesign, fabrication, testing, operation, and performance of these waterproofedphotomultiplier-tube assemblies are presented.

Quantum-inspired Complex Word Embedding

  A challenging task for word embeddings is to capture the emergent meaning orpolarity of a combination of individual words. For example, existing approachesin word embeddings will assign high probabilities to the words "Penguin" and"Fly" if they frequently co-occur, but it fails to capture the fact that theyoccur in an opposite sense - Penguins do not fly. We hypothesize that humans donot associate a single polarity or sentiment to each word. The word contributesto the overall polarity of a combination of words depending upon which otherwords it is combined with. This is analogous to the behavior of microscopicparticles which exist in all possible states at the same time and interferewith each other to give rise to new states depending upon their relativephases. We make use of the Hilbert Space representation of such particles inQuantum Mechanics where we subscribe a relative phase to each word, which is acomplex number, and investigate two such quantum inspired models to derive themeaning of a combination of words. The proposed models achieve betterperformances than state-of-the-art non-quantum models on the binary sentenceclassification task.

Randomization Inference for Peer Effects

  Many previous causal inference studies require no interference, that is, thepotential outcomes of a unit do not depend on the treatments of other units.However, this no-interference assumption becomes unreasonable when a unitinteracts with other units in the same group or cluster. In a motivatingapplication, a university in China admits students through two channels: thecollege entrance exam (also known as Gaokao) and recommendation (often based onOlympiads in various subjects). The university randomly assigns students todorms, each of which hosts four students. Students within the same dorm livetogether and have extensive interactions. Therefore, it is likely that peereffects exist and the no-interference assumption does not hold. It is importantto understand peer effects, because they give useful guidance for futureroommate assignment to improve the performance of students. We define peereffects using potential outcomes. We then propose a randomization-basedinference framework to study peer effects with arbitrary numbers of peers andpeer types. Our inferential procedure does not assume any parametric model onthe outcome distribution. Our analysis gives useful practical guidance forpolicy makers of the university in China.

Experimental Implementation of Efficient Quantum Pseudorandomness on a  12-spin System

  Quantum pseudorandomness, also known as unitary designs, comprise a powerfulresource for quantum computation and quantum engineering. While it is known intheory that pseudorandom unitary operators can be constructed efficiently,realizing these objects in realistic physical systems can be a challengingtask. In this work, we study quantum pseudorandomness generation on a 12-spinnuclear magnetic resonance system. The experimental process is based on therecently proposed design Hamiltonian approach, which has the merit of beingsignificantly more efficient than previous protocols. By applying randomrefocusing sequences to the experimental system we create a design Hamiltonianthe dynamics of which quickly forms unitary designs. We then usemultiple-quantum techniques to measure spreading of quantum coherences oversystem's degrees of freedom, and so to probe the growth of quantumpseudorandomness. The measured multiple-quantum coherence spectra indicate thatsubstantial quantum pseudorandomness have been achieved.

Detecting scrambling via statistical correlations between randomized  measurements on an NMR quantum simulator

  Out-of-time-order correlator (OTOC), been suggested as a measure of quantuminformation scrambling in quantum many-body systems, has received enormousattention recently. The experimental measurement of OTOC is quite challenging.The existing theoretical protocols consist in implementing time-reversaloperations or using ancillary quantum systems, therefore only a few experimentshave been reported. Recently, a new protocol to detect OTOC using statisticalcorrelations between randomized measurements was put forward. In this work, wedetect the OTOCs of a kicked-Ising model using this new measurement method on a4-qubit nuclear magnetic resonance quantum simulator. In experiment, we userandom Hamiltonian evolutions to generate the random operations that arerequired by the randomized OTOC detection protocol. Our experimental resultsare in good agreement with the theoretical predictions, thus confirming thefeasibility of the protocols. Therefore, our work represents a step inexploring realistic quantum chaotic dynamics in complicated quantum systems.

NMRCloudQ: A Quantum Cloud Experience on a Nuclear Magnetic Resonance  Quantum Computer

  As of today, no one can tell when a universal quantum computer with thousandsof logical quantum bits (qubits) will be built. At present, most quantumcomputer prototypes involve less than ten individually controllable qubits, andonly exist in laboratories for the sake of either the great costs of devices orprofessional maintenance requirements. Moreover, scientists believe thatquantum computers will never replace our daily, every-minute use of classicalcomputers, but would rather serve as a substantial addition to the classicalones when tackling some particular problems. Due to the above two reasons,cloud-based quantum computing is anticipated to be the most useful andreachable form for public users to experience with the power of quantum. Asinitial attempts, IBM Q has launched influential cloud services on asuperconducting quantum processor in 2016, but no other platforms has followedup yet. Here, we report our new cloud quantum computing service -- NMRCloudQ(http://nmrcloudq.com/zh-hans/), where nuclear magnetic resonance, one of thepioneer platforms with mature techniques in experimental quantum computing,plays as the role of implementing computing tasks. Our service provides acomprehensive software environment preconfigured with a list of quantuminformation processing packages, and aims to be freely accessible to eitheramateurs that look forward to keeping pace with this quantum era orprofessionals that are interested in carrying out real quantum computingexperiments in person. In our current version, four qubits are already usablewith in average 1.26% single-qubit gate error rate and 1.77% two-qubitcontrolled-NOT gate error rate via randomized benchmaking tests. Improvedcontrol precisions as well as a new seven-qubit processor are also inpreparation and will be available later.

Multi-parameter estimating photometric redshifts with artificial neural  networks

  We calculate photometric redshifts from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey DataRelease 2 Galaxy Sample using artificial neural networks (ANNs). Differentinput patterns based on various parameters (e.g. magnitude, color index, fluxinformation) are explored and their performances for redshift prediction arecompared. For ANN technique, any parameter may be easily incorporated as input,but our results indicate that using dereddening magnitude produces photometricredshift accuracies often better than the Petrosian magnitude or modelmagnitude. Similarly, the model magnitude is also superior to Petrosianmagnitude. In addition, ANNs also show better performance when the moreeffective parameters increase in the training set. Finally, the method istested on a sample of 79, 346 galaxies from the SDSS DR2. When using 19parameters based on the dereddening magnitude, the rms error in redshiftestimation is sigma(z)=0.020184. The ANN is highly competitive tool whencompared with traditional template-fitting methods where a large andrepresentative training set is available.

Solving Quantum Ground-State Problems with Nuclear Magnetic Resonance

  Quantum ground-state problems are computationally hard problems; for generalmany-body Hamiltonians, there is no classical or quantum algorithm known to beable to solve them efficiently. Nevertheless, if a trial wavefunctionapproximating the ground state is available, as often happens for many problemsin physics and chemistry, a quantum computer could employ this trialwavefunction to project the ground state by means of the phase estimationalgorithm (PEA). We performed an experimental realization of this idea byimplementing a variational-wavefunction approach to solve the ground-stateproblem of the Heisenberg spin model with an NMR quantum simulator. Ouriterative phase estimation procedure yields a high accuracy for theeigenenergies (to the 10^-5 decimal digit). The ground-state fidelity wasdistilled to be more than 80%, and the singlet-to-triplet switching near thecritical field is reliably captured. This result shows that quantum simulatorscan better leverage classical trial wavefunctions than classical computers.

Measurement of X-ray Photon Energy and Arrival Time Using a Silicon  Drift Detector

  Detecting the X-ray radialization of pulsars and obtaining the photons' timeof arrival are the foundation steps in autonomous navigation via X-ray pulsarmeasurement. The precision of a pulse' s time of arrival is mainly decided bythe precision of photon arrival time. In this work, a silicon drift detector isused to measure photon energy and arrival time. The measurement system consistsof a signal detector, a processing unit, a signal acquisition unit, and a datareceiving unit. This system acquires the energy resolution and arrival timeinformation of photons. In particular, when background noise with differentenergies disturbs epoch folding, the system can acquire a high signal-to-noiseratio pulse profile. Ground test results show that this system can be appliedin autonomous navigation using X-ray pulsar measurement as payload.

Theoretical Estimate of the Sensitivity of the CUORE Detector to Solar  Axions

  In this paper we calculate the potential sensitivity of the CUORE detector toaxions produced in the Sun through the Primakoff process and detected by theinverse coherent Bragg-Primakoff process. The conversion rate is calculatedusing density functional theory for the electron density and realisticexpectations for the energy resolution and background of CUORE. Monte Carlocalculations for $5~$y$\times741~$kg=$3705~$kg y of exposure are analyzed usingtime correlation of individual events with the theoretical time-dependentcounting rate and lead to an expected limit on the axion-photon coupling$g_{a\gamma\gamma}<3.83\times 10^{-10}~GeV^{-1}$ for axion masses less than$100$ eV.

Further Theoretical Study of Distribution Separation Method for  Information Retrieval

  Recently, a Distribution Separation Method (DSM) is proposed for relevantfeedback in information retrieval, which aims to approximate the true relevancedistribution by separating a seed irrelevance distribution from the mixtureone. While DSM achieved a promising empirical performance, theoretical analysisof DSM is still need further study and comparison with other relative retrievalmodel. In this article, we first generalize DSM's theoretical property, byproving that its minimum correlation assumption is equivalent to the maximum(original and symmetrized) KL-Divergence assumption. Second, we alsoanalytically show that the EM algorithm in a well-known Mixture Model isessentially a distribution separation process and can be simplified using thelinear separation algorithm in DSM. Some empirical results are also presentedto support our theoretical analysis.

Sensitivity of the CUORE detector to $14.4$ keV solar axions emitted by  the M1 nuclear transition of$~^{57}$Fe

  In this paper we present a calculation of the sensitivity of the CUOREdetector to the monoenergetic $14.4$ keV solar axions emitted by the M1 nucleartransition of$~^{57}$Fe in the Sun and detected by inverse coherentBragg-Primakoff conversion in single-crystal $TeO_2$ bolometers. The expectedcounting rate is calculated using density functional theory for the electroncharge density of $TeO_2$ and realistic background and energy resolution ofCUORE. Monte Carlo simulations for $5$ y $\times$ $741$ kg=$3705-$kg$\cdot$y ofexposure are analyzed using time correlation of individual events with thetheoretical time-dependent counting rate. We find an expected model-independentlimit on the product of the axion-photon coupling and the axion-nucleoncoupling $g_{a\gamma\gamma}g_{aN}^{\text{eff}}<1.105\times 10^{-16}$ /GeV foraxion masses less than 500 eV with $95\%$ confidence level.

Electrostriction coefficient of ferroelectric materials from ab initio  computation

  Electrostriction is an important material property that characterizes howstrain changes with the development of polarization inside a material. We showthat \textit{ab initio }techniques developed in recent years can be exploitedto compute and understand electrostriction of ferroelectric materials. Here,electrostriction coefficients of ferroelectric BaTiO$_{3}$, PbTiO$_{3}$, aswell as dielectric BaZrO$_{3}$, are obtained and analyzed. Possible causes ofthe difference between experimental and numerical results are discussed. Wealso identified that relative displacements between certain ions at a givenpolarization could be a good indicator of a material's electrostrictionproperty.

Insight into dielectric response of ferroelectric relaxors by  statistical modeling

  Ferroelectric relaxors are complex materials with distinct properties. Theunderstanding of their dielectric susceptibility, which strongly depends onboth temperature and probing frequency, have interested researchers for manyyears. Here we report a macroscopic and phenomenological approach based onstatistical modeling to investigate and better understand how the dielectricresponse of a relaxor depends on temperature. Employing the Maxwell-Boltzmanndistribution and considering temperature dependent dipolar orientationalpolarizability, we propose a minimum statistical model and specific equationsto understand and fit numerical and experimental dielectric responses versustemperature. We show that the proposed formula can successfully fit thedielectric response of typical relaxors, including Ba(Zr,Ti)O$_{3}$,Pb(Zn$_{1/3}$Nb$_{2/3}$)$_{0.87}$Ti$_{0.13}$O$_{3}$, andPb(Mg$_{1/3}$Nb$_{2/3}$)O$_{3}$-0.05Pb(Zr$_{0.53}$Ti$_{0.47}$)O$_{3}$, whichdemonstrates the general applicability of this approach.

Boundary-sensitive Network for Portrait Segmentation

  Compared to the general semantic segmentation problem, portrait segmentationhas higher precision requirement on boundary area. However, this problem hasnot been well studied in previous works. In this paper, we propose aboundary-sensitive deep neural network (BSN) for portrait segmentation. BSNintroduces three novel techniques. First, an individual boundary-sensitivekernel is proposed by dilating the contour line and assigning the boundarypixels with multi-class labels. Second, a global boundary-sensitive kernel isemployed as a position sensitive prior to further constrain the overall shapeof the segmentation map. Third, we train a boundary-sensitive attributeclassifier jointly with the segmentation network to reinforce the network withsemantic boundary shape information. We have evaluated BSN on the currentlargest public portrait segmentation dataset, i.e, the PFCN dataset, as well asthe portrait images collected from other three popular image segmentationdatasets: COCO, COCO-Stuff, and PASCAL VOC. Our method achieves the superiorquantitative and qualitative performance over state-of-the-arts on all thedatasets, especially on the boundary area.

Large intrinsic anomalous Hall effect in half-metallic ferromagnet  Co3Sn2S2 with magnetic Weyl fermions

  The origin of anomalous Hall effect (AHE) in magnetic materials is one of themost intriguing aspect in condensed matter physics and has been controversialfor a long time. Recent studies indicate that the intrinsic AHE is closelyrelated to the Berry curvature of occupied electronic states. In a magneticWeyl semimetal with broken time-reversal symmetry, there are significantcontributions on Berry curvature around Weyl nodes, which would lead to a largeintrinsic AHE. Here, we report the large intrinsic AHE in the half-metallicferromagnet Co3Sn2S2 single crystal. By systematically mapping out theelectronic structure of Co3Sn2S2 theoretically and experimentally, the largeintrinsic AHE should originate from the Weyl fermions near the Fermi energy.Furthermore, the intrinsic anomalous Hall conductivity depends linearly on themagnetization and this can be attributed to the sharp decrease of magnetizationand the change of topological characteristics.

Modeling Multidimensional User Relevance in IR using Vector Spaces

  It has been shown that relevance judgment of documents is influenced bymultiple factors beyond topicality. Some multidimensional user relevance models(MURM) proposed in literature have investigated the impact of differentdimensions of relevance on user judgment. Our hypothesis is that a user mightgive more importance to certain relevance dimensions in a session which mightchange dynamically as the session progresses. This motivates the need tocapture the weights of different relevance dimensions using feedback and builda model to rank documents for subsequent queries according to these weights. Wepropose a geometric model inspired by the mathematical framework of Quantumtheory to capture the user's importance given to each dimension of relevanceand test our hypothesis on data from a web search engine and TREC Sessiontrack.

