A General Algorithm for Deciding Transportability of Experimental  Results

  Generalizing empirical findings to new environments, settings, or populationsis essential in most scientific explorations. This article treats a particularproblem of generalizability, called "transportability", defined as a license totransfer information learned in experimental studies to a different population,on which only observational studies can be conducted. Given a set ofassumptions concerning commonalities and differences between the twopopulations, Pearl and Bareinboim (2011) derived sufficient conditions thatpermit such transfer to take place. This article summarizes their findings andsupplements them with an effective procedure for deciding when and howtransportability is feasible. It establishes a necessary and sufficientcondition for deciding when causal effects in the target population areestimable from both the statistical information available and the causalinformation transferred from the experiments. The article further provides acomplete algorithm for computing the transport formula, that is, a way ofcombining observational and experimental information to synthesize bias-freeestimate of the desired causal relation. Finally, the article examines thedifferences between transportability and other variants of generalizability.

Causal Inference by Surrogate Experiments: z-Identifiability

  We address the problem of estimating the effect of intervening on a set ofvariables X from experiments on a different set, Z, that is more accessible tomanipulation. This problem, which we call z-identifiability, reduces toordinary identifiability when Z = empty and, like the latter, can be givensyntactic characterization using the do-calculus [Pearl, 1995; 2000]. Weprovide a graphical necessary and sufficient condition for z-identifiabilityfor arbitrary sets X,Z, and Y (the outcomes). We further develop a completealgorithm for computing the causal effect of X on Y using information providedby experiments on Z. Finally, we use our results to prove completeness ofdo-calculus relative to z-identifiability, a result that does not follow fromcompleteness relative to ordinary identifiability.

Descents and nodal load in scale-free networks

  The load of a node in a network is the total traffic going through it whenevery node pair sustains a uniform bidirectional traffic between them onshortest paths. We show that nodal load can be expressed in terms of the moreelementary notion of a node's descents in breadth-first-search (BFS orshortest-path) trees, and study both the descent and nodal-load distributionsin the case of scale-free networks. Our treatment is both semi-analytical(combining a generating-function formalism with simulation-derived BFSbranching probabilities) and computational for the descent distribution; it isexclusively computational in the case of the load distribution. Our main resultis that the load distribution, even though it can be disguised as a power-lawthrough subtle (but inappropriate) binning of the raw data, is in fact asuccession of sharply delineated probability peaks, each of which can beclearly interpreted as a function of the underlying BFS descents. This find isin stark contrast with previously held belief, based on which a power law ofexponent -2.2 was conjectured to be valid regardless of the exponent of thepower-law distribution of node degrees.

External Validity: From Do-Calculus to Transportability Across  Populations

  The generalizability of empirical findings to new environments, settings orpopulations, often called "external validity," is essential in most scientificexplorations. This paper treats a particular problem of generalizability,called "transportability," defined as a license to transfer causal effectslearned in experimental studies to a new population, in which onlyobservational studies can be conducted. We introduce a formal representationcalled "selection diagrams" for expressing knowledge about differences andcommonalities between populations of interest and, using this representation,we reduce questions of transportability to symbolic derivations in thedo-calculus. This reduction yields graph-based procedures for deciding, priorto observing any data, whether causal effects in the target population can beinferred from experimental findings in the study population. When the answer isaffirmative, the procedures identify what experimental and observationalfindings need be obtained from the two populations, and how they can becombined to ensure bias-free transport.

Incorporating Knowledge into Structural Equation Models using Auxiliary  Variables

  In this paper, we extend graph-based identification methods by allowingbackground knowledge in the form of non-zero parameter values. Such informationcould be obtained, for example, from a previously conducted randomizedexperiment, from substantive understanding of the domain, or even anidentification technique. To incorporate such information systematically, wepropose the addition of auxiliary variables to the model, which are constructedso that certain paths will be conveniently cancelled. This cancellation allowsthe auxiliary variables to help conventional methods of identification (e.g.,single-door criterion, instrumental variables, half-trek criterion), as well asmodel testing (e.g., d-separation, over-identification). Moreover, byiteratively alternating steps of identification and adding auxiliary variables,we can improve the power of existing identification methods via a bootstrappingapproach that does not require external knowledge. We operationalize thismethod for simple instrumental sets (a generalization of instrumentalvariables) and show that the resulting method is able to identify at least asmany models as the most general identification method for linear systems knownto date. We further discuss the application of auxiliary variables to the tasksof model testing and z-identification.

Identification and Model Testing in Linear Structural Equation Models  using Auxiliary Variables

  We developed a novel approach to identification and model testing in linearstructural equation models (SEMs) based on auxiliary variables (AVs), whichgeneralizes a widely-used family of methods known as instrumental variables.The identification problem is concerned with the conditions under which causalparameters can be uniquely estimated from an observational, non-causalcovariance matrix. In this paper, we provide an algorithm for theidentification of causal parameters in linear structural models that subsumesprevious state-of-the-art methods. In other words, our algorithm identifiesstrictly more coefficients and models than methods previously known in theliterature. Our algorithm builds on a graph-theoretic characterization ofconditional independence relations between auxiliary and model variables, whichis developed in this paper. Further, we leverage this new characterization forallowing identification when limited experimental data or new substantiveknowledge about the domain is available. Lastly, we develop a new procedure formodel testing using AVs.

Budgeted Experiment Design for Causal Structure Learning

  We study the problem of causal structure learning when the experimenter islimited to perform at most $k$ non-adaptive experiments of size $1$. Weformulate the problem of finding the best intervention target set as anoptimization problem, which aims to maximize the average number of edges whosedirections are resolved. We prove that the corresponding objective function issubmodular and a greedy algorithm suffices to achieve$(1-\frac{1}{e})$-approximation of the optimal value. We further present anaccelerated variant of the greedy algorithm, which can lead to orders ofmagnitude performance speedup. We validate our proposed approach on syntheticand real graphs. The results show that compared to the purely observationalsetting, our algorithm orients the majority of the edges through a considerablysmall number of interventions.

Causal Identification under Markov Equivalence

  Assessing the magnitude of cause-and-effect relations is one of the centralchallenges found throughout the empirical sciences. The problem ofidentification of causal effects is concerned with determining whether a causaleffect can be computed from a combination of observational data and substantiveknowledge about the domain under investigation, which is formally expressed inthe form of a causal graph. In many practical settings, however, the knowledgeavailable for the researcher is not strong enough so as to specify a uniquecausal graph. Another line of investigation attempts to use observational datato learn a qualitative description of the domain called a Markov equivalenceclass, which is the collection of causal graphs that share the same set ofobserved features. In this paper, we marry both approaches and study theproblem of causal identification from an equivalence class, represented by apartial ancestral graph (PAG). We start by deriving a set of graphicalproperties of PAGs that are carried over to its induced subgraphs. We thendevelop an algorithm to compute the effect of an arbitrary set of variables onan arbitrary outcome set. We show that the algorithm is strictly more powerfulthan the current state of the art found in the literature.

