A Corpus-Based Approach for Building Semantic Lexicons

  Semantic knowledge can be a great asset to natural language processingsystems, but it is usually hand-coded for each application. Although somesemantic information is available in general-purpose knowledge bases such asWordNet and Cyc, many applications require domain-specific lexicons thatrepresent words and categories for a particular topic. In this paper, wepresent a corpus-based method that can be used to build semantic lexicons forspecific categories. The input to the system is a small set of seed words for acategory and a representative text corpus. The output is a ranked list of wordsthat are associated with the category. A user then reviews the top-ranked wordsand decides which ones should be entered in the semantic lexicon. Inexperiments with five categories, users typically found about 60 words percategory in 10-15 minutes to build a core semantic lexicon.

Looking Under the Hood : Tools for Diagnosing your Question Answering  Engine

  In this paper we analyze two question answering tasks : the TREC-8 questionanswering task and a set of reading comprehension exams. First, we show thatQ/A systems perform better when there are multiple answer opportunities perquestion. Next, we analyze common approaches to two subproblems: term overlapfor answer sentence identification, and answer typing for short answerextraction. We present general tools for analyzing the strengths andlimitations of techniques for these subproblems. Our results quantify thelimitations of both term overlap and answer typing to distinguish betweencompeting answer candidates.

And That's A Fact: Distinguishing Factual and Emotional Argumentation in  Online Dialogue

  We investigate the characteristics of factual and emotional argumentationstyles observed in online debates. Using an annotated set of "factual" and"feeling" debate forum posts, we extract patterns that are highly correlatedwith factual and emotional arguments, and then apply a bootstrappingmethodology to find new patterns in a larger pool of unannotated forum posts.This process automatically produces a large set of patterns representinglinguistic expressions that are highly correlated with factual and emotionallanguage. Finally, we analyze the most discriminating patterns to betterunderstand the defining characteristics of factual and emotional arguments.

Are you serious?: Rhetorical Questions and Sarcasm in Social Media  Dialog

  Effective models of social dialog must understand a broad range of rhetoricaland figurative devices. Rhetorical questions (RQs) are a type of figurativelanguage whose aim is to achieve a pragmatic goal, such as structuring anargument, being persuasive, emphasizing a point, or being ironic. While thereare computational models for other forms of figurative language, rhetoricalquestions have received little attention to date. We expand a small datasetfrom previous work, presenting a corpus of 10,270 RQs from debate forums andTwitter that represent different discourse functions. We show that we canclearly distinguish between RQs and sincere questions (0.76 F1). We then showthat RQs can be used both sarcastically and non-sarcastically, observing thatnon-sarcastic (other) uses of RQs are frequently argumentative in forums, andpersuasive in tweets. We present experiments to distinguish between these usesof RQs using SVM and LSTM models that represent linguistic features andpost-level context, achieving results as high as 0.76 F1 for "sarcastic" and0.77 F1 for "other" in forums, and 0.83 F1 for both "sarcastic" and "other" intweets. We supplement our quantitative experiments with an in-depthcharacterization of the linguistic variation in RQs.

Creating and Characterizing a Diverse Corpus of Sarcasm in Dialogue

  The use of irony and sarcasm in social media allows us to study them at scalefor the first time. However, their diversity has made it difficult to constructa high-quality corpus of sarcasm in dialogue. Here, we describe the process ofcreating a large- scale, highly-diverse corpus of online debate forumsdialogue, and our novel methods for operationalizing classes of sarcasm in theform of rhetorical questions and hyperbole. We show that we can uselexico-syntactic cues to reliably retrieve sarcastic utterances with highaccuracy. To demonstrate the properties and quality of our corpus, we conductsupervised learning experiments with simple features, and show that we achieveboth higher precision and F than previous work on sarcasm in debate forumsdialogue. We apply a weakly-supervised linguistic pattern learner andqualitatively analyze the linguistic differences in each class.

