Finding links and initiators: a graph reconstruction problem

  Consider a 0-1 observation matrix M, where rows correspond to entities andcolumns correspond to signals; a value of 1 (or 0) in cell (i,j) of M indicatesthat signal j has been observed (or not observed) in entity i. Given such amatrix we study the problem of inferring the underlying directed links betweenentities (rows) and finding which entries in the matrix are initiators.  We formally define this problem and propose an MCMC framework for estimatingthe links and the initiators given the matrix of observations M. We also showhow this framework can be extended to incorporate a temporal aspect; instead ofconsidering a single observation matrix M we consider a sequence of observationmatrices M1,..., Mt over time.  We show the connection between our problem and several problems studied inthe field of social-network analysis. We apply our method to paleontologicaland ecological data and show that our algorithms work well in practice and givereasonable results.

Anonymizing Graphs

  Motivated by recently discovered privacy attacks on social networks, we studythe problem of anonymizing the underlying graph of interactions in a socialnetwork. We call a graph (k,l)-anonymous if for every node in the graph thereexist at least k other nodes that share at least l of its neighbors. Weconsider two combinatorial problems arising from this notion of anonymity ingraphs. More specifically, given an input graph we ask for the minimum numberof edges to be added so that the graph becomes (k,l)-anonymous. We define twovariants of this minimization problem and study their properties. We show thatfor certain values of k and l the problems are polynomial-time solvable, whilefor others they become NP-hard. Approximation algorithms for the latter casesare also given.

Opinion Maximization in Social Networks

  The process of opinion formation through synthesis and contrast of differentviewpoints has been the subject of many studies in economics and socialsciences. Today, this process manifests itself also in online social networksand social media. The key characteristic of successful promotion campaigns isthat they take into consideration such opinion-formation dynamics in order tocreate a overall favorable opinion about a specific information item, such as aperson, a product, or an idea.  In this paper, we adopt a well-established model for social-opinion dynamicsand formalize the campaign-design problem as the problem of identifying a setof target individuals whose positive opinion about an information item willmaximize the overall positive opinion for the item in the social network. Wecall this problem CAMPAIGN. We study the complexity of the CAMPAIGN problem,and design algorithms for solving it. Our experiments on real data demonstratethe efficiency and practical utility of our algorithms.

A Divide-and-Conquer Algorithm for Betweenness Centrality

  The problem of efficiently computing the betweenness centrality of nodes hasbeen researched extensively. To date, the best known exact and centralizedalgorithm for this task is an algorithm proposed in 2001 by Brandes. Thecontribution of our paper is Brandes++, an algorithm for exact efficientcomputation of betweenness centrality. The crux of our algorithm is that wecreate a sketch of the graph, that we call the skeleton, by replacing subgraphswith simpler graph structures. Depending on the underlying graph structure,using this skeleton and by keeping appropriate summaries Brandes++ we canachieve significantly low running times in our computations. Extensiveexperimental evaluation on real life datasets demonstrate the efficacy of ouralgorithm for different types of graphs. We release our code for benefit of theresearch community.

Community-aware network sparsification

  Network sparsification aims to reduce the number of edges of a network whilemaintaining its structural properties; such properties include shortest paths,cuts, spectral measures, or network modularity. Sparsification has multipleapplications, such as, speeding up graph-mining algorithms, graphvisualization, as well as identifying the important network edges. In thispaper we consider a novel formulation of the network-sparsification problem. Inaddition to the network, we also consider as input a set of communities. Thegoal is to sparsify the network so as to preserve the network structure withrespect to the given communities. We introduce two variants of thecommunity-aware sparsification problem, leading to sparsifiers that satisfydifferent connectedness community properties. From the technical point of view,we prove hardness results and devise effective approximation algorithms. Ourexperimental results on a large collection of datasets demonstrate theeffectiveness of our algorithms.

Team Formation for Scheduling Educational Material in Massive Online  Classes

  Whether teaching in a classroom or a Massive Online Open Course it is crucialto present the material in a way that benefits the audience as a whole. Weidentify two important tasks to solve towards this objective, 1 group studentsso that they can maximally benefit from peer interaction and 2 find an optimalschedule of the educational material for each group. Thus, in this paper, wesolve the problem of team formation and content scheduling for education. Givena time frame d, a set of students S with their required need to learn differentactivities T and given k as the number of desired groups, we study the problemof finding k group of students. The goal is to teach students within time framed such that their potential for learning is maximized and find the bestschedule for each group. We show this problem to be NP-hard and develop apolynomial algorithm for it. We show our algorithm to be effective both onsynthetic as well as a real data set. For our experiments, we use real data onstudents' grades in a Computer Science department. As part of our contribution,we release a semi-synthetic dataset that mimics the properties of the realdata.

Targeted matrix completion

  Matrix completion is a problem that arises in many data-analysis settingswhere the input consists of a partially-observed matrix (e.g., recommendersystems, traffic matrix analysis etc.). Classical approaches to matrixcompletion assume that the input partially-observed matrix is low rank. Thesuccess of these methods depends on the number of observed entries and the rankof the matrix; the larger the rank, the more entries need to be observed inorder to accurately complete the matrix. In this paper, we deal with matricesthat are not necessarily low rank themselves, but rather they contain low-ranksubmatrices. We propose Targeted, which is a general framework for completingsuch matrices. In this framework, we first extract the low-rank submatrices andthen apply a matrix-completion algorithm to these low-rank submatrices as wellas the remainder matrix separately. Although for the completion itself we usestate-of-the-art completion methods, our results demonstrate that Targetedachieves significantly smaller reconstruction errors than other classicalmatrix-completion methods. One of the key technical contributions of the paperlies in the identification of the low-rank submatrices from the inputpartially-observed matrices.

Matrix completion with queries

  In many applications, e.g., recommender systems and traffic monitoring, thedata comes in the form of a matrix that is only partially observed and lowrank. A fundamental data-analysis task for these datasets is matrix completion,where the goal is to accurately infer the entries missing from the matrix. Evenwhen the data satisfies the low-rank assumption, classical matrix-completionmethods may output completions with significant error -- in that thereconstructed matrix differs significantly from the true underlying matrix.Often, this is due to the fact that the information contained in the observedentries is insufficient. In this work, we address this problem by proposing anactive version of matrix completion, where queries can be made to the trueunderlying matrix. Subsequently, we design Order&Extend, which is the firstalgorithm to unify a matrix-completion approach and a querying strategy into asingle algorithm. Order&Extend is able identify and alleviate insufficientinformation by judiciously querying a small number of additional entries. In anextensive experimental evaluation on real-world datasets, we demonstrate thatour algorithm is efficient and is able to accurately reconstruct the truematrix while asking only a small number of queries.

Markov Chain Monitoring

  In networking applications, one often wishes to obtain estimates about thenumber of objects at different parts of the network (e.g., the number of carsat an intersection of a road network or the number of packets expected to reacha node in a computer network) by monitoring the traffic in a small number ofnetwork nodes or edges. We formalize this task by defining the 'Markov ChainMonitoring' problem.  Given an initial distribution of items over the nodes of a Markov chain, wewish to estimate the distribution of items at subsequent times. We do this byasking a limited number of queries that retrieve, for example, how many itemstransitioned to a specific node or over a specific edge at a particular time.We consider different types of queries, each defining a different variant ofthe Markov chain monitoring. For each variant, we design efficient algorithmsfor choosing the queries that make our estimates as accurate as possible. Inour experiments with synthetic and real datasets we demonstrate the efficiencyand the efficacy of our algorithms in a variety of settings.

A Team-Formation Algorithm for Faultline Minimization

  In recent years, the proliferation of online resumes and the need to evaluatelarge populations of candidates for on-site and virtual teams have led to agrowing interest in automated team-formation. Given a large pool of candidates,the general problem requires the selection of a team of experts to complete agiven task. Surprisingly, while ongoing research has studied numerousvariations with different constraints, it has overlooked a factor with awell-documented impact on team cohesion and performance: team faultlines.Addressing this gap is challenging, as the available measures for faultlines inexisting teams cannot be efficiently applied to faultline optimization. In thiswork, we meet this challenge with a new measure that can be efficiently usedfor both faultline measurement and minimization. We then use the measure tosolve the problem of automatically partitioning a large population intolow-faultline teams. By introducing faultlines to the team-formationliterature, our work creates exciting opportunities for algorithmic work onfaultline optimization, as well as on work that combines and studies theconnection of faultlines with other influential team characteristics.

The Filter-Placement Problem and its Application to Minimizing  Information Multiplicity

  In many information networks, data items -- such as updates in socialnetworks, news flowing through interconnected RSS feeds and blogs, measurementsin sensor networks, route updates in ad-hoc networks -- propagate in anuncoordinated manner: nodes often relay information they receive to neighbors,independent of whether or not these neighbors received the same informationfrom other sources. This uncoordinated data dissemination may result insignificant, yet unnecessary communication and processing overheads, ultimatelyreducing the utility of information networks. To alleviate the negative impactsof this information multiplicity phenomenon, we propose that a subset of nodes(selected at key positions in the network) carry out additional informationfiltering functionality. Thus, nodes are responsible for the removal (orsignificant reduction) of the redundant data items relayed through them. Werefer to such nodes as filters. We formally define the Filter Placement problemas a combinatorial optimization problem, and study its computational complexityfor different types of graphs. We also present polynomial-time approximationalgorithms and scalable heuristics for the problem. Our experimental results,which we obtained through extensive simulations on synthetic and real-worldinformation flow networks, suggest that in many settings a relatively smallnumber of filters are fairly effective in removing a large fraction ofredundant information.

Best Friends Forever (BFF): Finding Lasting Dense Subgraphs

  Graphs form a natural model for relationships and interactions betweenentities, for example, between people in social and cooperation networks,servers in computer networks, or tags and words in documents and tweets. But,which of these relationships or interactions are the most lasting ones? In thispaper, we study the following problem: given a set of graph snapshots, whichmay correspond to the state of an evolving graph at different time instances,identify the set of nodes that are the most densely connected in all snapshots.We call this problem the Best Friends For Ever (BFF) problem. We providedefinitions for density over multiple graph snapshots, that capture differentsemantics of connectedness over time, and we study the corresponding variantsof the BFF problem. We then look at the On-Off BFF (O^2BFF) problem thatrelaxes the requirement of nodes being connected in all snapshots, and asks forthe densest set of nodes in at least $k$ of a given set of graph snapshots. Weshow that this problem is NP-complete for all definitions of density, and wepropose a set of efficient algorithms. Finally, we present experiments withsynthetic and real datasets that show both the efficiency of our algorithms andthe usefulness of the BFF and the O^2BFF problems.

Active Network Alignment: A Matching-Based Approach

  Network alignment is the problem of matching the nodes of two graphs,maximizing the similarity of the matched nodes and the edges between them. Thisproblem is encountered in a wide array of applications-from biological networksto social networks to ontologies-where multiple networked data sources need tobe integrated. Due to the difficulty of the task, an accurate alignment canrarely be found without human assistance. Thus, it is of great practicalimportance to develop network alignment algorithms that can optimally leverageexperts who are able to provide the correct alignment for a small number ofnodes. Yet, only a handful of existing works address this active networkalignment setting.  The majority of the existing active methods focus on absolute queries ("arenodes $a$ and $b$ the same or not?"), whereas we argue that it is generallyeasier for a human expert to answer relative queries ("which node in the set$\{b_1, \ldots, b_n\}$ is the most similar to node $a$?"). This paperintroduces two novel relative-query strategies, TopMatchings andGibbsMatchings, which can be applied on top of any network alignment methodthat constructs and solves a bipartite matching problem. Our methods identifythe most informative nodes to query by sampling the matchings of the bipartitegraph associated to the network-alignment instance.  We compare the proposed approaches to several commonly-used query strategiesand perform experiments on both synthetic and real-world datasets. Oursampling-based strategies yield the highest overall performance, outperformingall the baseline methods by more than 15 percentage points in some cases. Interms of accuracy, TopMatchings and GibbsMatchings perform comparably. However,GibbsMatchings is significantly more scalable, but it also requireshyperparameter tuning for a temperature parameter.

Finding low-tension communities

  Motivated by applications that arise in online social media and collaborationnetworks, there has been a lot of work on community-search and team-formationproblems. In the former class of problems, the goal is to find a subgraph thatsatisfies a certain connectivity requirement and contains a given collection ofseed nodes. In the latter class of problems, on the other hand, the goal is tofind individuals who collectively have the skills required for a task and forma connected subgraph with certain properties.  In this paper, we extend both the community-search and the team-formationproblems by associating each individual with a profile. The profile is anumeric score that quantifies the position of an individual with respect to atopic. We adopt a model where each individual starts with a latent profile andarrives to a conformed profile through a dynamic conformation process, whichtakes into account the individual's social interaction and the tendency toconform with one's social environment. In this framework, social tension arisesfrom the differences between the conformed profiles of neighboring individualsas well as from differences between individuals' conformed and latent profiles.  Given a network of individuals, their latent profiles and this conformationprocess, we extend the community-search and the team-formation problems byrequiring the output subgraphs to have low social tension. From the technicalpoint of view, we study the complexity of these problems and propose algorithmsfor solving them effectively. Our experimental evaluation in a number of socialnetworks reveals the efficacy and efficiency of our methods.

