Learning Channel Inter-dependencies at Multiple Scales on Dense Networks  for Face Recognition

  We propose a new deep network structure for unconstrained face recognition.The proposed network integrates several key components together in order tocharacterize complex data distributions, such as in unconstrained face images.Inspired by recent progress in deep networks, we consider some importantconcepts, including multi-scale feature learning, dense connections of networklayers, and weighting different network flows, for building our deep networkstructure. The developed network is evaluated in unconstrained face matching,showing the capability of learning complex data distributions caused by faceimages with various qualities.

Feedback Capacity over Networks

  In this paper, we investigate the fundamental limitations of feedbackmechanism in dealing with uncertainties for network systems. The study ofmaximum capability of feedback control was pioneered in Xie and Guo (2000) forscalar systems with nonparametric nonlinear uncertainty. In a network setting,nodes with unknown and nonlinear dynamics are interconnected through a directedinteraction graph. Nodes can design feedback controls based on all availableinformation, where the objective is to stabilize the network state. Usinginformation structure and decision pattern as criteria, we specify threecategories of network feedback laws, namely theglobal-knowledge/global-decision, network-flow/local-decision, andlocal-flow/local-decision feedback. We establish a series of network capacitycharacterizations for these three fundamental types of network control laws.First of all, we prove that for global-knowledge/global-decision andnetwork-flow/local-decision control where nodes know the information flowacross the entire network, there exists a critical number$\big(3/2+\sqrt{2}\big)/\|A_{\mathrm{G}}\|_\infty$, where $3/2+\sqrt{2}$ is asknown as the Xie-Guo constant and $A_{\mathrm{G}}$ is the network adjacencymatrix, defining exactly how much uncertainty in the node dynamics can beovercome by feedback. Interestingly enough, the same feedback capacity can beachieved under max-consensus enhanced local flows where nodes only observeinformation flows from neighbors as well as extreme (max and min) states in thenetwork. Next, for local-flow/local-decision control, we prove that thereexists a structure-determined value being a lower bound of the network feedbackcapacity. These results reveal the important connection between networkstructure and fundamental capabilities of in-network feedback control.

Observation of Kondo Effect in a Quadruple Quantum Dots

  We investigate the Kondo effect in a quadruple quantum dot device ofcoupled-double quantum dots (DQDs), which simultaneously contains intra-DQDsand inter-DQDs coupling. A variety of novel behaviors are observed. Thedifferential conductance dI/dV is measured in the upper DQDs as a function ofsource drain bias. It is found to exhibit multiple peaks, including a zero-biaspeak, where the number of peaks exceeds five. Alternatively, tuning the lowerDQDs yielded regions of four peaks. In addition, a Kondo-effect switcher isdemonstrated, using the lower DQDs as the controller.

Artificial Synaptic Arrays Intercoupled by Nanogranular Proton  Conductors for Building Neuromorphic Systems

  The highly parallel process in the neuron networks is mediated through a massof synaptic interconnections. Mimicking single synapse behaviors and highlyparalleled neural networks has become more and more fascinating and important.Here, oxide-based artificial synaptic arrays are fabricated on P-dopednanogranular SiO2-based proton conducting films at room temperature. Synapticplasticity is demonstrated on individual artificial synapse. Most importantly,without any intentional hard-wired connection, such synaptic arrays areintercoupled due to the electric-field induced lateral proton modulation. Thenatural interconnection is weakly correlative with distance, and is importantfor neural networks. At last, paralleled summation is also mimicked, whichprovides a novel approach for building future brain-like computational systems.

From Graph Isoperimetric Inequality to Network Connectivity -- A New  Approach

  We present a new, novel approach to obtaining a network's connectivity. Morespecifically, we show that there exists a relationship between a network'sgraph isoperimetric properties and its conditional connectivity. A network'sconnectivity is the minimum number of nodes, whose removal will cause thenetwork disconnected. It is a basic and important measure for the network'sreliability, hence its overall robustness. Several conditional connectivitieshave been proposed in the past for the purpose of accurately reflecting variousrealistic network situations, with extra connectivity being one suchconditional connectivity. In this paper, we will use isoperimetric propertiesof the hypercube network to obtain its extra connectivity. The result of thepaper for the first time establishes a relationship between the age-oldisoperimetric problem and network connectivity.

Performance of Photosensors in the PandaX-I Experiment

  We report the long term performance of the photosensors, 143 one-inchR8520-406 and 37 three-inch R11410-MOD photomultipliers from Hamamatsu, in thefirst phase of the PandaX dual-phase xenon dark matter experiment. This is thefirst time that a significant number of R11410 photomultiplier tubes wereoperated in liquid xenon for an extended period, providing important guidanceto the future large xenon-based dark matter experiments.

Attributes in Multiple Facial Images

  Facial attribute recognition is conventionally computed from a single image.In practice, each subject may have multiple face images. Taking the eye size asan example, it should not change, but it may have different estimation inmultiple images, which would make a negative impact on face recognition. Thus,how to compute these attributes corresponding to each subject rather than eachsingle image is a profound work. To address this question, we deploy deeptraining for facial attributes prediction, and we explore the inconsistencyissue among the attributes computed from each single image. Then, we developtwo approaches to address the inconsistency issue. Experimental results showthat the proposed methods can handle facial attribute estimation on eithermultiple still images or video frames, and can correct the incorrectlyannotated labels. The experiments are conducted on two large public databaseswith annotations of facial attributes.

Learning Large Euclidean Margin for Sketch-based Image Retrieval

  This paper addresses the problem of Sketch-Based Image Retrieval (SBIR), forwhich bridge the gap between the data representations of sketch images andphoto images is considered as the key. Previous works mostly focus on learninga feature space to minimize intra-class distances for both sketches and photos.In contrast, we propose a novel loss function, named Euclidean Margin Softmax(EMS), that not only minimizes intra-class distances but also maximizesinter-class distances simultaneously. It enables us to learn a feature spacewith high discriminability, leading to highly accurate retrieval. In addition,this loss function is applied to a conditional network architecture, whichcould incorporate the prior knowledge of whether a sample is a sketch or aphoto. We show that the conditional information can be convenientlyincorporated to the recently proposed Squeeze and Excitation (SE) module, leadto a conditional SE (CSE) module. Extensive experiments are conducted on twowidely used SBIR benchmark datasets. Our approach, although being very simple,achieved new state-of-the-art on both datasets, surpassing existing methods bya large margin.

Adversarial Attacks against Deep Saliency Models

  Currently, a plethora of saliency models based on deep neural networks haveled great breakthroughs in many complex high-level vision tasks (e.g. scenedescription, object detection). The robustness of these models, however, hasnot yet been studied. In this paper, we propose a sparse feature-spaceadversarial attack method against deep saliency models for the first time. Theproposed attack only requires a part of the model information, and is able togenerate a sparser and more insidious adversarial perturbation, compared totraditional image-space attacks. These adversarial perturbations are so subtlethat a human observer cannot notice their presences, but the model outputs willbe revolutionized. This phenomenon raises security threats to deep saliencymodels in practical applications. We also explore some intriguing properties ofthe feature-space attack, e.g. 1) the hidden layers with bigger receptivefields generate sparser perturbations, 2) the deeper hidden layers achievehigher attack success rates, and 3) different loss functions and differentattacked layers will result in diverse perturbations. Experiments indicate thatthe proposed method is able to successfully attack different modelarchitectures across various image scenes.

Common Fermi Surface Topology and Nodeless Superconducting Gap in  K0.68Fe1.79Se2 and (Tl0.45K0.34)Fe1.84Se2 Superconductors Revealed from  Angle-Resolved Photoemission Spectroscopy

  We carried out high resolution angle-resolved photoemission measurements onthe electronic structure and superconducting gap of K_0.68Fe_1.79Se_2 (T_c=32K) and (Tl_0.45K_0.34)Fe_1.84Se_2 (T_c=28 K) superconductors. In addition tothe electron-like Fermi surface near M(\pi,\pi), two electron-like Fermipockets are revealed around the zone center \Gamma(0,0) in K0.68Fe1.79Se_2.This observation makes the Fermi surface topology of K_0.68Fe_1.79Se_2consistent with that of (Tl,Rb)_xFe_{2-y}Se_2 and (Tl,K)_xFe_{2-y}Se_2compounds. A nearly isotropic superconducting gap (\Delta) is observed alongthe electron-like Fermi pocket near the M point in K_0.68Fe_1.79Se_2(\Delta\sim 9 meV) and (Tl_0.45K_0.34)Fe_1.84Se_2 (\Delta\sim 8 meV). Theestablishment of a universal picture on the Fermi surface topology andsuperconducting gap in the A_xFe_2-ySe_2 (A=K, Tl, Cs, Rb and etc.)superconductors will provide important information in understanding thesuperconductivity mechanism of the iron-based superconductors.

Fermi Surface and Band Structure of (Ca,La)FeAs2 Superconductor from  Angle-Resolved Photoemission Spectroscopy

  The (Ca,R)FeAs2 (R=La,Pr and etc.) superconductors with a signature ofsuperconductivity transition above 40 K possess a new kind of block layers thatconsist of zig-zag As chains. In this paper, we report the electronic structureof the new (Ca,La)FeAs2 superconductor investigated by both band structurecalculations and high resolution angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopymeasurements. Band structure calculations indicate that there are fourhole-like bands around the zone center $\Gamma$(0,0) and two electron-likebands near the zone corner M(pi,pi) in CaFeAs2. In our angle-resolvedphotoemission measurements on (Ca0.9La0.1})FeAs2, we have observed threehole-like bands around the Gamma point and one electron-like Fermi surface nearthe M(pi,pi) point. These results provide important information to compare andcontrast with the electronic structure of other iron-based compounds inunderstanding the superconductivity mechanism in the iron-basedsuperconductors.

Unconstrained Face Detection and Open-Set Face Recognition Challenge

  Face detection and recognition benchmarks have shifted toward more difficultenvironments. The challenge presented in this paper addresses the next step inthe direction of automatic detection and identification of people from outdoorsurveillance cameras. While face detection has shown remarkable success inimages collected from the web, surveillance cameras include more diverseocclusions, poses, weather conditions and image blur. Although faceverification or closed-set face identification have surpassed humancapabilities on some datasets, open-set identification is much more complex asit needs to reject both unknown identities and false accepts from the facedetector. We show that unconstrained face detection can approach high detectionrates albeit with moderate false accept rates. By contrast, open-set facerecognition is currently weak and requires much more attention.

First dark matter search results from the PandaX-I experiment

  We report on the first dark-matter (DM) search results from PandaX-I, a lowthreshold dual-phase xenon experiment operating at the China JinpingUnderground Laboratory. In the 37-kg liquid xenon target with 17.4 live-days ofexposure, no DM particle candidate event was found. This result sets astringent limit for low-mass DM particles and disfavors the interpretation ofpreviously-reported positive experimental results. The minimum upper limit,$3.7\times10^{-44}$\,cm$^2$, for the spin-independent isoscalarDM-particle-nucleon scattering cross section is obtained at a DM-particle massof 49\,GeV/c$^2$ at 90\% confidence level.

Low-mass dark matter search results from full exposure of PandaX-I  experiment

  We report the results of a weakly-interacting massive particle (WIMP) darkmatter search using the full 80.1\;live-day exposure of the first stage of thePandaX experiment (PandaX-I) located in the China Jin-Ping UndergroundLaboratory. The PandaX-I detector has been optimized for detecting low-massWIMPs, achieving a photon detection efficiency of 9.6\%. With a fiducial liquidxenon target mass of 54.0\,kg, no significant excess event were found above theexpected background. A profile likelihood analysis confirms our earlier findingthat the PandaX-I data disfavor all positive low-mass WIMP signals reported inthe literature under standard assumptions. A stringent bound on the low massWIMP is set at WIMP mass below 10\,GeV/c$^2$, demonstrating that liquid xenondetectors can be competitive for low-mass WIMP searches.

