Fast Spammer Detection Using Structural Rank

  Comments for a product or a news article are rapidly growing and became amedium of measuring quality products or services. Consequently, spammers havebeen emerged in this area to bias them toward their favor. In this paper, wepropose an efficient spammer detection method using structural rank of authorspecific term-document matrices. The use of structural rank was found effectiveand far faster than similar methods.

Unfolding Latent Tree Structures using 4th Order Tensors

  Discovering the latent structure from many observed variables is an importantyet challenging learning task. Existing approaches for discovering latentstructures often require the unknown number of hidden states as an input. Inthis paper, we propose a quartet based approach which is \emph{agnostic} tothis number. The key contribution is a novel rank characterization of thetensor associated with the marginal distribution of a quartet. Thischaracterization allows us to design a \emph{nuclear norm} based test forresolving quartet relations. We then use the quartet test as a subroutine in adivide-and-conquer algorithm for recovering the latent tree structure. Undermild conditions, the algorithm is consistent and its error probability decaysexponentially with increasing sample size. We demonstrate that the proposedapproach compares favorably to alternatives. In a real world stock dataset, italso discovers meaningful groupings of variables, and produces a model thatfits the data better.

Integer Low Rank Approximation of Integer matrices

  Integer data sets frequently appear in many applications in sciences andtechnology. To analyze these, integer low rank approximation has received muchattention due to its capacity of representing the results in integerspreserving the meaning of the original data sets. To our knowledge, none ofpreviously proposed techniques developed for real numbers can be successfullyapplied, since integers are discrete in nature. In this work, we start with athorough review of algorithms for solving integer least squares problems, {and}then develop a block coordinate descent method based on the integer leastsquares estimation to obtain the integer low rank approximation of integermatrices. The numerical application on association analysis and numericalexperiments on random integer matrices are presented. Our computed results seemto suggest that our method can find a more accurate solution than otherexisting methods for continuous data sets.

PixelSNE: Visualizing Fast with Just Enough Precision via Pixel-Aligned  Stochastic Neighbor Embedding

  Embedding and visualizing large-scale high-dimensional data in atwo-dimensional space is an important problem since such visualization canreveal deep insights out of complex data. Most of the existing embeddingapproaches, however, run on an excessively high precision, ignoring the factthat at the end, embedding outputs are converted into coarse-grained discretepixel coordinates in a screen space. Motivated by such an observation anddirectly considering pixel coordinates in an embedding optimization process, weaccelerate Barnes-Hut tree-based t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding(BH-SNE), known as a state-of-the-art 2D embedding method, and propose a novelmethod called PixelSNE, a highly-efficient, screen resolution-driven 2Dembedding method with a linear computational complexity in terms of the numberof data items. Our experimental results show the significantly fast runningtime of PixelSNE by a large margin against BH-SNE, while maintaining theminimal degradation in the embedding quality. Finally, the source code of ourmethod is publicly available at https://github.com/awesome-davian/PixelSNE

Outlier Detection for Text Data : An Extended Version

  The problem of outlier detection is extremely challenging in many domainssuch as text, in which the attribute values are typically non-negative, andmost values are zero. In such cases, it often becomes difficult to separate theoutliers from the natural variations in the patterns in the underlying data. Inthis paper, we present a matrix factorization method, which is naturally ableto distinguish the anomalies with the use of low rank approximations of theunderlying data. Our iterative algorithm TONMF is based on block coordinatedescent (BCD) framework. We define blocks over the term-document matrix suchthat the function becomes solvable. Given most recently updated values of othermatrix blocks, we always update one block at a time to its optimal. Ourapproach has significant advantages over traditional methods for text outlierdetection. Finally, we present experimental results illustrating theeffectiveness of our method over competing methods.

Understanding Actors and Evaluating Personae with Gaussian Embeddings

  Understanding narrative content has become an increasingly popular topic.Nonetheless, research on identifying common types of narrative characters, orpersonae, is impeded by the lack of automatic and broad-coverage evaluationmethods. We argue that computationally modeling actors provides benefits,including novel evaluation mechanisms for personae. Specifically, we proposetwo actor-modeling tasks, cast prediction and versatility ranking, which cancapture complementary aspects of the relation between actors and the charactersthey portray. For an actor model, we present a technique for embedding actors,movies, character roles, genres, and descriptive keywords as Gaussiandistributions and translation vectors, where the Gaussian variance correspondsto actors' versatility. Empirical results indicate that (1) the techniqueconsiderably outperforms TransE (Bordes et al. 2013) and ablation baselines and(2) automatically identified persona topics (Bamman, O'Connor, and Smith 2013)yield statistically significant improvements in both tasks, whereas simplisticpersona descriptors including age and gender perform inconsistently, validatingprior research.

Hierarchical Clustering of Hyperspectral Images using Rank-Two  Nonnegative Matrix Factorization

  In this paper, we design a hierarchical clustering algorithm forhigh-resolution hyperspectral images. At the core of the algorithm, a newrank-two nonnegative matrix factorizations (NMF) algorithm is used to split theclusters, which is motivated by convex geometry concepts. The method startswith a single cluster containing all pixels, and, at each step, (i) selects acluster in such a way that the error at the next step is minimized, and (ii)splits the selected cluster into two disjoint clusters using rank-two NMF insuch a way that the clusters are well balanced and stable. The proposed methodcan also be used as an endmember extraction algorithm in the presence of purepixels. The effectiveness of this approach is illustrated on several syntheticand real-world hyperspectral images, and shown to outperform standardclustering techniques such as k-means, spherical k-means and standard NMF.

Fast Clustering and Topic Modeling Based on Rank-2 Nonnegative Matrix  Factorization

  The importance of unsupervised clustering and topic modeling is wellrecognized with ever-increasing volumes of text data. In this paper, we proposea fast method for hierarchical clustering and topic modeling called HierNMF2.Our method is based on fast Rank-2 nonnegative matrix factorization (NMF) thatperforms binary clustering and an efficient node splitting rule. Furtherutilizing the final leaf nodes generated in HierNMF2 and the idea ofnonnegative least squares fitting, we propose a new clustering/topic modelingmethod called FlatNMF2 that recovers a flat clustering/topic modeling result ina very simple yet significantly more effective way than any other existingmethods. We implement highly optimized open source software in C++ for bothHierNMF2 and FlatNMF2 for hierarchical and partitional clustering/topicmodeling of document data sets.  Substantial experimental tests are presented that illustrate significantimprovements both in computational time as well as quality of solutions. Wecompare our methods to other clustering methods including K-means, standardNMF, and CLUTO, and also topic modeling methods including latent Dirichletallocation (LDA) and recently proposed algorithms for NMF with separabilityconstraints. Overall, we present efficient tools for analyzing large-scale datasets, and techniques that can be generalized to many other data analyticsproblem domains.

A High-Performance Parallel Algorithm for Nonnegative Matrix  Factorization

  Non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) is the problem of determining twonon-negative low rank factors $W$ and $H$, for the given input matrix $A$, suchthat $A \approx W H$. NMF is a useful tool for many applications in differentdomains such as topic modeling in text mining, background separation in videoanalysis, and community detection in social networks. Despite its popularity inthe data mining community, there is a lack of efficient parallel software tosolve the problem for big datasets. Existing distributed-memory algorithms arelimited in terms of performance and applicability, as they are implementedusing Hadoop and are designed only for sparse matrices.  We propose a distributed-memory parallel algorithm that computes thefactorization by iteratively solving alternating non-negative least squares(NLS) subproblems for $W$ and $H$. To our knowledge, our algorithm is the firsthigh-performance parallel algorithm for NMF. It maintains the data and factormatrices in memory (distributed across processors), uses MPI for interprocessorcommunication, and, in the dense case, provably minimizes communication costs(under mild assumptions). As opposed to previous implementations, our algorithmis also flexible: (1) it performs well for dense and sparse matrices, and (2)it allows the user to choose from among multiple algorithms for solving localNLS subproblems within the alternating iterations. We demonstrate thescalability of our algorithm and compare it with baseline implementations,showing significant performance improvements.

MPI-FAUN: An MPI-Based Framework for Alternating-Updating Nonnegative  Matrix Factorization

  Non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) is the problem of determining twonon-negative low rank factors $W$ and $H$, for the given input matrix $A$, suchthat $A \approx W H$. NMF is a useful tool for many applications in differentdomains such as topic modeling in text mining, background separation in videoanalysis, and community detection in social networks. Despite its popularity inthe data mining community, there is a lack of efficient parallel algorithms tosolve the problem for big data sets.  The main contribution of this work is a new, high-performance parallelcomputational framework for a broad class of NMF algorithms that iterativelysolves alternating non-negative least squares (NLS) subproblems for $W$ and$H$. It maintains the data and factor matrices in memory (distributed acrossprocessors), uses MPI for interprocessor communication, and, in the dense case,provably minimizes communication costs (under mild assumptions). The frameworkis flexible and able to leverage a variety of NMF and NLS algorithms, includingMultiplicative Update, Hierarchical Alternating Least Squares, and BlockPrincipal Pivoting. Our implementation allows us to benchmark and comparedifferent algorithms on massive dense and sparse data matrices of size thatspans for few hundreds of millions to billions. We demonstrate the scalabilityof our algorithm and compare it with baseline implementations, showingsignificant performance improvements. The code and the datasets used forconducting the experiments are available online.

Hybrid Clustering based on Content and Connection Structure using Joint  Nonnegative Matrix Factorization

  We present a hybrid method for latent information discovery on the data setscontaining both text content and connection structure based on constrained lowrank approximation. The new method jointly optimizes the Nonnegative MatrixFactorization (NMF) objective function for text clustering and the SymmetricNMF (SymNMF) objective function for graph clustering. We propose an effectivealgorithm for the joint NMF objective function, based on a block coordinatedescent (BCD) framework. The proposed hybrid method discovers contentassociations via latent connections found using SymNMF. The method can also beapplied with a natural conversion of the problem when a hypergraph formulationis used or the content is associated with hypergraph edges.  Experimental results show that by simultaneously utilizing both content andconnection structure, our hybrid method produces higher quality clusteringresults compared to the other NMF clustering methods that uses content alone(standard NMF) or connection structure alone (SymNMF). We also present someinteresting applications to several types of real world data such as citationrecommendations of papers. The hybrid method proposed in this paper can also beapplied to general data expressed with both feature space vectors and pairwisesimilarities and can be extended to the case with multiple feature spaces ormultiple similarity measures.

SUSTain: Scalable Unsupervised Scoring for Tensors and its Application  to Phenotyping

  This paper presents a new method, which we call SUSTain, that extendsreal-valued matrix and tensor factorizations to data where values are integers.Such data are common when the values correspond to event counts or ordinalmeasures. The conventional approach is to treat integer data as real, and thenapply real-valued factorizations. However, doing so fails to preserve importantcharacteristics of the original data, thereby making it hard to interpret theresults. Instead, our approach extracts factor values from integer datasets asscores that are constrained to take values from a small integer set. Thesescores are easy to interpret: a score of zero indicates no feature contributionand higher scores indicate distinct levels of feature importance.  At its core, SUSTain relies on: a) a problem partitioning intointeger-constrained subproblems, so that they can be optimally solved in anefficient manner; and b) organizing the order of the subproblems' solution, topromote reuse of shared intermediate results. We propose two variants,SUSTain_M and SUSTain_T, to handle both matrix and tensor inputs, respectively.We evaluate SUSTain against several state-of-the-art baselines on bothsynthetic and real Electronic Health Record (EHR) datasets. Comparing to thosebaselines, SUSTain shows either significantly better fit or orders of magnitudespeedups that achieve a comparable fit (up to 425X faster). We apply SUSTain toEHR datasets to extract patient phenotypes (i.e., clinically meaningful patientclusters). Furthermore, 87% of them were validated as clinically meaningfulphenotypes related to heart failure by a cardiologist.

