Faithfulness of the Lawrence representation of braid groups

  The Lawrence representation $L_{n,m}$ is a family of homologicalrepresentation of the braid group $B_n$, which specializes to the reduced Burauand the Lawrence-Krammer representation when $m$ is 1 and 2. In this article weshow that the Lawrence representation is faithful for $m \geq 2$.

A geometric categorification of tensor products of $U_q(sl_2)$-modules

  We give a purely geometric categorification of tensor products offinite-dimensional simple $U_q(sl_2)$-modules and $R$-matrices on them. Thework is developed in the framework of category of perverse sheaves and thecategorification theorems are understood as consequences of Deligne's theory ofweights.

Expansion formula for complex Monge-Ampère equation along cone  singularities

  In this paper, we prove the asymptotic expansion of the solutions to somesingular complex Monge-Amp\`ere equation which arise naturally in the study ofthe conical K\"ahler-Einstein metric.

Proof of the volume conjecture for Whitehead doubles of a family of  torus knots

  A technique to calculate the colored Jones polynomials of satellite knots,illustrated by the Whitehead doubles of knots, is presented. Then we prove thevolume conjecture for Whitehead doubles of a family of torus knots and showsome interesting observations.

A trace formula for the forcing relation of braids

  The forcing relation of braids has been introduced for a 2-dimensionalanalogue of the Sharkovskii order on periods for maps of the interval. In thispaper, by making use of the Nielsen fixed point theory and a representation ofbraid groups, we deduce a trace formula for the computation of the forcingorder.

General cycling operations in Garside groups

  In this article, we introduce the notion of cycling operations of arbitraryorder in Garside groups, which is a full generalization of the cycling anddecycling operations. Theoretically, this notion together with other relatedconcepts provides a context in which various definitions and argumentsconcerning Garside groups are unified and simplified as well as improved.Practically, it yields a new algorithm which has a considerably improvedperformance on solving the conjugacy problem of reducible braids.

Categorification of integrable representations of quantum groups

  We categorify the highest weight integrable representations and their tensorproducts of a symmetric quantum Kac-Moody algebra. As byproducts, we obtain ageometric realization of Lusztig's canonical bases of these representations aswell as a new positivity result. The main ingredient in the underlyinggeometric construction is a class of micro-local perverse sheaves on quivervarieties.

Extended TQFT arising from enriched multi-fusion categories

  We define a symmetric monoidal (4,3)-category with duals whose objects arecertain enriched multi-fusion categories. For every modular tensor category$\mathcal{C}$, there is a self enriched multi-fusion category $\mathfrak{C}$giving rise to an object of this symmetric monoidal (4,3)-category. Weconjecture that the extended 3D TQFT given by the fully dualizable object$\mathfrak{C}$ extends the 1-2-3-dimensional Reshetikhin-Turaev TQFT associatedto the modular tensor category $\mathcal{C}$ down to dimension zero.

The Quantization of the Relative Cohomology Group

  The paper was removed.

On the Hecke algebras and the colored HOMFLY polynomial

  This paper has been withdrawn since it is identical to the papermath.QA/0601267. It was posted by mistake.

No embeddings of solenoids into surfaces

  A quick proof of Bing's theorem indicated by the title is given. The proofalso concludes Gumerov's result on covering degrees of solenoids.

Blow-up for a Three Dimensional Keller-Segel Model with Consumption of  Chemoattractant

  We investigate blow-up properties for the initial-boundary value problem of aKeller-Segel model with consumption of chemoattractant when the spatialdimension is three. Through a kinetic reformulation of the Keller-Segel model,we first derive some higher-order estimates and obtain certain blow-up criteriafor the local classical solutions. These blow-up criteria generalize theresults in [4,5] from the whole space $\mathbb{R}^3$ to the case of boundedsmooth domain $\Omega\subset \mathbb{R}^3$. Lower global blow-up estimate on$\|n\|_{L^\infty(\Omega)}$ is also obtained based on our higher-orderestimates. Moreover, we prove local non-degeneracy for blow-up points.

Self-mapping Degrees of 3-Manifolds

  For each closed oriented 3-manifold $M$ in Thurston's picture, the set ofdegrees of self-maps on $M$ is given.

On the skein polynomial for links

  We give characterizations of the skein polynomial for links (as well as Jonesand Alexander-Conway polynomials derivable from it), avoiding the usual"smoothing of a crossing" move. As by-products we have characterizations ofthese polynomials for knots, and for links with any given number of components.

Modeling The Adaption Rule in Context-aware Systems

  Context awareness is increasingly gaining applicability in interactiveubiquitous mobile computing systems. Each context-aware application has its ownset of behaviors to react to context modifications. This paper is concernedwith the context modeling and the development methodology for context-awaresystems. We proposed a rule-based approach and use the adaption tree to modelthe adaption rule of context-aware systems. We illustrate this idea in anarithmetic game application.

Adaptive Consensus ADMM for Distributed Optimization

  The alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM) is commonly used fordistributed model fitting problems, but its performance and reliability dependstrongly on user-defined penalty parameters. We study distributed ADMM methodsthat boost performance by using different fine-tuned algorithm parameters oneach worker node. We present a O(1/k) convergence rate for adaptive ADMMmethods with node-specific parameters, and propose adaptive consensus ADMM(ACADMM), which automatically tunes parameters without user oversight.

Atomic-scale visualization of quasiparticle interference on a type-II  Weyl semimetal surface

  We combine quasiparticle interference simulation (theory) and atomicresolution scanning tunneling spectro-microscopy (experiment) to visualize theinterference patterns on a type-II Weyl semimetal Mo$_{x}$W$_{1-x}$Te$_2$ forthe first time. Our simulation based on first-principles band topologytheoretically reveals the surface electron scattering behavior. We identify thetopological Fermi arc states and reveal the scattering properties of thesurface states in Mo$_{0.66}$W$_{0.34}$Te$_2$. In addition, our result revealsan experimental signature of the topology via the interconnectivity of bulk andsurface states, which is essential for understanding the unusual nature of thismaterial.

Mirror protected Dirac fermions on a Weyl semimetal NbP surface

  The first Weyl semimetal was recently discovered in the NbP class ofcompounds. Although the topology of these novel materials has been identified,the surface properties are not yet fully understood. By means of scanningtunneling spectroscopy, we find that NbPs (001) surface hosts a pair of Diraccones protected by mirror symmetry. Through our high resolution spectroscopicmeasurements, we resolve the quantum interference patterns arising from thesenovel Dirac fermions, and reveal their electronic structure, including thelinear dispersions. Our data, in agreement with our theoretical calculations,uncover further interesting features of the Weyl semimetal NbPs already exoticsurface. Moreover, we discuss the similarities and distinctions between theDirac fermions here and those in topological crystalline insulators in terms ofsymmetry protection and topology.

Quasiparticle interference on type-I and type-II Weyl semimetal  surfaces: a review

  Weyl semimetals are a new member of the topological materials family,featuring a pair of singly degenerate Weyl cones with linear dispersion aroundthe nodes in the bulk, and Fermi arcs on the surface. Depending on whether thesystem conserves or violates Lorentz symmetry, Weyl semimetals can becategorized into two classes. Photoemission spectroscopy measurements haveconfirmed the TaAs-class and WTe2-class of Weyl semimetals as type-I andtype-II respectively. This review article aims to elucidate and elaborate onthe basic concepts of Weyl semimetals and quasiparticle interferenceexperiments on both type-I and type-II Weyl semimetals. The versatile resultswhich reveal (1) the topological sink effect of the surface carriers, theunique feature of the Fermi arc state; (2) the weakly bound nature of the Fermiarc surface state; (3) the orbital dependent scattering channels on thesurface; (4) a mirror symmetry protected surface Dirac cone, are summarilydiscussed. Finally, a perspective toward the future applications ofquasiparticle interference techniques on topological materials is presented.

Evaluating the Effectiveness of Health Awareness Events by Google Search  Frequency

  Over two hundreds health awareness events take place in the United States inorder to raise attention and educate the public about diseases. It would beinformative and instructive for the organization to know the impact of theseevents, although such information could be difficult to measure. Here 46 eventsare selected and their data from 2004 to 2017 are downloaded from GoogleTrend(GT). We investigate whether the events effectively attract the publicattention by increasing the search frequencies of certain keywords which wecall queries. Three statistical methods including Transfer Function Noisemodeling, Wilcoxon Rank Sum test, and Binomial inference are conducted on 46 GTdata sets. Our study show that 10 health awareness events are effective withevidence of a significant increase in search frequencies in the event months,and 28 events are ineffective, with the rest being classified as unclear.

On the Hecke algebras and the colored HOMFLY polynomial

  The colored HOMFLY polynomial is the quantum invariant of oriented links in$S^3$ associated with irreducible representations of the quantum group$U_q(\mathrm{sl}_N)$. In this paper, using an approach to calculate quantuminvariants of links via cabling-projection rule, we derive a formula for thecolored HOMFLY polynomial in terms of the characters of the Hecke algebras andSchur polynomials. The technique leads to a fairly simple formula for thecolored HOMFLY polynomial of torus links. This formula allows us to test theLabastida-Mari\~no-Vafa conjecture, which reveals a deep relationship betweenChern-Simons gauge theory and string theory, on torus links.

On tame embeddings of solenoids into 3-space

  Solenoids are ``inverse limits'' of the circle, and the classical knot theoryis the theory of tame embeddings of the circle into the 3-space. We give somegeneral study, including certain classification results, of tame embeddings ofsolenoids into the 3-space as the ``inverse limits'' of the tame embeddings ofthe circle.  Some applications are discussed. In particular, there are ``tamely'' embeddedsolenoids $\Sigma\subset \R^3$ which are strictly achiral. Since solenoids arenon-planar, this contrasts sharply with the known fact that if there is astrictly achiral embedding $Y\subset \R^3$ of a compact polyhedron $Y$, then$Y$ must be planar.

Reifenberg Flatness of Free Boundaries in Obstacle Problems with VMO  Ingredients

  We study the obstacle problem with an elliptic operator in divergence form.We develop all of the basic theory of existence, uniqueness, optimalregularity, and nondegeneracy of the solutions. These results, in turn, allowus to begin the study of the regularity of the free boundary in the case wherethe coefficients are in VMO.

Cyber Behavior of Microblog Users: Onlies Versus Others

  Much research has been conducted to investigate personality and dailybehavior of these only children ('Onlies') due to the Chineseone-child-per-family policy, and report the singleton generation to be moreselfish. As Microblog becomes increasingly popular recently in China, westudied cyber behavior of Onlies and children with siblings ('Others') on SinaMicroblog ('Weibo'), a leading Microblog service provider in China.Participants were 1792 Weibo users. Their recorded data on Weibo weredownloaded to assess their cyber behaviors. The general results show that (1)Onlies have a smaller social circle; (2)Onlies are more significantly active onsocial platform.

Observation of the Adler-Bell-Jackiw chiral anomaly in a Weyl semimetal

  We report the experimental discovery of Adler-Bell-Jackiw chiral anomaly in aWeyl semimetal crystal.

Drinfeld center of enriched monoidal categories

  We define the Drinfeld center of a monoidal category enriched over a braidedmonoidal category, and show that every modular tensor category can be realizedin a canonical way as the Drinfeld center of a self-enriched monoidal category.We also give a generalization of this result for important applications inphysics.

Semisimple and separable algebras in multi-fusion categories

  We give a classification of semisimple and separable algebras in amulti-fusion category over an arbitrary field in analogy to Wedderben-Artintheorem in classical algebras. It turns out that, if the multi-fusion categoryadmits a semisimple Drinfeld center, the only obstruction to the separabilityof a semisimple algebra arises from inseparable field extensions as inclassical algebras. Among others, we show that a division algebra is separableif and only if it has a nonvanishing dimension.

TPC Together with Overlapped Time Domain Multiplexing System Based on  Turbo Structure

  Overlapped time domain multiplexing (OvTDM) is a novel technique forutilizing inter-symbol interference (ISI) to benefit a communication system. Weimplement the OvTDM technique based on turbo structure and associate a turboproduct code (TPC) to construct a novel coded turbo-structure OvTDM system. Twoschemes of the iterative receiver and soft input and soft output (SISO)decoding algorithms are presented. Simulation results show the advantage ofstructures in this paper. In addition, an attractive transmission rate andsymbol efficiency of the designed system can also be observed.

AISHELL-1: An Open-Source Mandarin Speech Corpus and A Speech  Recognition Baseline

  An open-source Mandarin speech corpus called AISHELL-1 is released. It is byfar the largest corpus which is suitable for conducting the speech recognitionresearch and building speech recognition systems for Mandarin. The recordingprocedure, including audio capturing devices and environments are presented indetails. The preparation of the related resources, including transcriptions andlexicon are described. The corpus is released with a Kaldi recipe. Experimentalresults implies that the quality of audio recordings and transcriptions arepromising.

A three-dimensional magnetic topological phase

  We use photoemission spectroscopy to discover the first topological magnet inthree dimensions, the material Co$_2$MnGa.

Atomic Scale Visualization of Quantum Interference on a Weyl Semimetal  Surface by Scanning Tunneling Microscopy/Spectroscopy

  Weyl semimetals may open a new era in condensed matter physics, materialsscience and nanotech after graphene and topological insulators. We report thefirst atomic scale view of the surface states of a Weyl semimetal (NbP) usingscanning tunneling microscopy/spectroscopy. We observe coherent quantuminterference patterns that arise from the scattering of quasiparticles nearpoint defects on the surface. The measurements reveal the surface electronicstructure both below and above the chemical potential in both real andreciprocal spaces. Moreover, the interference maps uncover the scatteringprocesses of NbP's exotic surface states. Through comparison betweenexperimental data and theoretical calculations, we further discover that thescattering channels are largely restricted by the orbital and/or spin textureof the surface band. The visualization of the scattering processes can helpdesign novel transport effects and electronics on the topological surface of aWeyl semimetal.

Boundary-bulk relation in topological orders

  In this paper, we study the relation between an anomaly-free $n+$1Dtopological order, which are often called $n+$1D topological order in physicsliterature, and its $n$D gapped boundary phases. We argue that the $n+$1D bulkanomaly-free topological order for a given $n$D gapped boundary phase isunique. This uniqueness defines the notion of the "bulk" for a given gappedboundary phase. In this paper, we show that the $n+$1D "bulk" phase is given bythe "center" of the $n$D boundary phase. In other words, the geometric notionof the "bulk" corresponds precisely to the algebraic notion of the "center". Weachieve this by first introducing the notion of a morphism between two(potentially anomalous) topological orders of the same dimension, then provingthat the notion of the "bulk" satisfies the same universal property as that ofthe "center" of an algebra in mathematics, i.e. "bulk = center". The entireargument does not require us to know the precise mathematical description of a(potentially anomalous) topological order. This result leads to concretephysical predictions.

A New Ensemble Learning Framework for 3D Biomedical Image Segmentation

  3D image segmentation plays an important role in biomedical image analysis.Many 2D and 3D deep learning models have achieved state-of-the-art segmentationperformance on 3D biomedical image datasets. Yet, 2D and 3D models have theirown strengths and weaknesses, and by unifying them together, one may be able toachieve more accurate results. In this paper, we propose a new ensemblelearning framework for 3D biomedical image segmentation that combines themerits of 2D and 3D models. First, we develop a fully convolutional networkbased meta-learner to learn how to improve the results from 2D and 3D models(base-learners). Then, to minimize over-fitting for our sophisticatedmeta-learner, we devise a new training method that uses the results of thebase-learners as multiple versions of "ground truths". Furthermore, since ournew meta-learner training scheme does not depend on manual annotation, it canutilize abundant unlabeled 3D image data to further improve the model.Extensive experiments on two public datasets (the HVSMR 2016 Challenge datasetand the mouse piriform cortex dataset) show that our approach is effectiveunder fully-supervised, semi-supervised, and transductive settings, and attainssuperior performance over state-of-the-art image segmentation methods.

Long-Range triplet Josephson Current Modulated by the Interface  Magnetization Texture

  We have investigated the Josephson coupling between two s-wavesuperconductors separated by the ferromagnetic trilayers with noncollinearmagnetization. We find that the long-range triplet critical current willoscillate with the strength of the exchange field and the thickness of theinterface layer, when the interface magnetizations are orthogonal to thecentral magnetization. This feature is induced by the spatial oscillations ofthe spin-triplet state |\uparrow\downarrow>+|\downarrow\uparrow> in theinterface layer. Moreover, the critical current can exhibit a characteristicnonmonotonic behavior, when the misalignment angle between interfacemagnetization and central ferromagnet increases from 0 to \pi/2. This peculiarbehavior will take place under the condition that the original state of thejunction with the parallel magnetizations is the \pi state.

Well-posedness and long-time behavior of a non-autonomous  Cahn-Hilliard-Darcy system with mass source modeling tumor growth

  In this paper, we study an initial boundary value problem of theCahn-Hilliard-Darcy system with a non-autonomous mass source term $S$ thatmodels tumor growth. We first prove the existence of global weak solutions aswell as the existence of unique local strong solutions in both 2D and 3D. Thenwe investigate the qualitative behavior of solutions in details when thespatial dimension is two. More precisely, we prove that the strong solutionexists globally and it defines a closed dynamical process. Then we establishthe existence of a minimal pullback attractor for translated bounded masssource $S$. Finally, when $S$ is assumed to be asymptotically autonomous, wedemonstrate that any global weak/strong solution converges to a single steadystate as $t\to+\infty$. An estimate on the convergence rate is also given.

Global Existence and Asymptotic Behavior of Solutions to a  Chemotaxis-Fluid System on General Bounded Domain

  In this paper, we investigate an initial-boundary value problem for achemotaxis-fluid system in a general bounded regular domain $\Omega \subset\mathbb{R}^N$ ($N\in\{2,3\}$), not necessarily being convex. Thanks to theelementary lemma given by Mizoguchi & Souplet [10], we can derive a new type ofentropy-energy estimate, which enables us to prove the following: (1) for$N=2$, there exists a unique global classical solution to the fullchemotaxis-Navier-Stokes system, which converges to a constant steady state$(n_\infty, 0,0)$ as $t\to+\infty$, and (2) for $N=3$, the existence of aglobal weak solution to the simplified chemotaxis-Stokes system. Our resultsgeneralize the recent work due to Winkler [15,16], in which the domain $\Omega$is essentially assumed to be convex.

Trust Exploitation and Attention Competition: A Game Theoretical Model

  The proliferation of Social Network Sites (SNSs) has greatly reformed the wayof information dissemination, but also provided a new venue for hosts withimpure motivations to disseminate malicious information. Social trust is thebasis for information dissemination in SNSs. Malicious hosts judiciously anddynamically make the balance between maintaining its social trust and selfishlymaximizing its malicious gain over a long time-span. Studying the optimalresponse strategies for each malicious host could assist to design the bestsystem maneuver so as to achieve the targeted level of overall maliciousactivities. In this paper, we propose an interaction-based social trust model,and formulate the maximization of long-term malicious gains of multiplecompeting hosts as a non-cooperative differential game. Through rigorousanalysis, optimal response strategies are identified and the best systemmaneuver mechanism is presented. Extensive numerical studies further verify theanalytical results.

FlowIntent: Detecting Privacy Leakage from User Intention to Network  Traffic Mapping

  The exponential growth of mobile devices has raised concerns about sensitivedata leakage. In this paper, we make the first attempt to identify suspiciouslocation-related HTTP transmission flows from the user's perspective, byanswering the question: Is the transmission user-intended? In contrast toprevious network-level detection schemes that mainly rely on a given set ofsuspicious hostnames, our approach can better adapt to the fast growth of appmarket and the constantly evolving leakage patterns. On the other hand,compared to existing system-level detection schemes built upon program taintanalysis, where all sensitive transmissions as treated as illegal, our approachbetter meets the user needs and is easier to deploy. In particular, ourproof-of-concept implementation (FlowIntent) captures sensitive transmissionsmissed by TaintDroid, the state-of-the-art dynamic taint analysis system onAndroid platforms. Evaluation using 1002 location sharing instances collectedfrom more than 20,000 apps shows that our approach achieves about 91% accuracyin detecting illegitimate location transmissions.

Iterative Multi-domain Regularized Deep Learning for Anatomical  Structure Detection and Segmentation from Ultrasound Images

  Accurate detection and segmentation of anatomical structures from ultrasoundimages are crucial for clinical diagnosis and biometric measurements. Althoughultrasound imaging has been widely used with superiorities such as low cost andportability, the fuzzy border definition and existence of abounding artifactspose great challenges for automatically detecting and segmenting the complexanatomical structures. In this paper, we propose a multi-domain regularizeddeep learning method to address this challenging problem. By leveraging thetransfer learning from cross domains, the feature representations areeffectively enhanced. The results are further improved by the iterativerefinement. Moreover, our method is quite efficient by taking advantage of afully convolutional network, which is formulated as an end-to-end learningframework of detection and segmentation. Extensive experimental results on alarge-scale database corroborated that our method achieved a superior detectionand segmentation accuracy, outperforming other methods by a significant marginand demonstrating competitive capability even compared to human performance.

Evolving Boxes for Fast Vehicle Detection

  We perform fast vehicle detection from traffic surveillance cameras. A noveldeep learning framework, namely Evolving Boxes, is developed that proposes andrefines the object boxes under different feature representations. Specifically,our framework is embedded with a light-weight proposal network to generateinitial anchor boxes as well as to early discard unlikely regions; afine-turning network produces detailed features for these candidate boxes. Weshow intriguingly that by applying different feature fusion techniques, theinitial boxes can be refined for both localization and recognition. We evaluateour network on the recent DETRAC benchmark and obtain a significant improvementover the state-of-the-art Faster RCNN by 9.5% mAP. Further, our networkachieves 9-13 FPS detection speed on a moderate commercial GPU.

LeakSemantic: Identifying Abnormal Sensitive Network Transmissions in  Mobile Applications

  Mobile applications (apps) often transmit sensitive data through network withvarious intentions. Some transmissions are needed to fulfill the app'sfunctionalities. However, transmissions with malicious receivers may lead toprivacy leakage and tend to behave stealthily to evade detection. The problemis twofold: how does one unveil sensitive transmissions in mobile apps, andgiven a sensitive transmission, how does one determine if it is legitimate?  In this paper, we propose LeakSemantic, a framework that can automaticallylocate abnormal sensitive network transmissions from mobile apps. LeakSemanticconsists of a hybrid program analysis component and a machine learningcomponent. Our program analysis component combines static analysis and dynamicanalysis to precisely identify sensitive transmissions. Compared to existingtaint analysis approaches, LeakSemantic achieves better accuracy with fewerfalse positives and is able to collect runtime data such as network traffic foreach transmission. Based on features derived from the runtime data, machinelearning classifiers are built to further differentiate between the legal andillegal disclosures. Experiments show that LeakSemantic achieves 91% accuracyon 2279 sensitive connections from 1404 apps.

Topological crystalline antiferromagnetic state in tetragonal FeS

  Integration between magnetism and topology is an exotic phenomenon incondensed-matter physics. Here, we propose an exotic phase named topologicalcrystalline antiferromagnetic state, in which antiferromagnetism intrinsicallyintegrates with nontrivial topology, and we suggest such a state can berealized in tetragonal FeS. A combination of first-principles calculations andsymmetry analyses shows that the topological crystalline antiferromagneticstate arises from band reconstruction induced by pair checker-boardantiferromagnetic order together with band-gap opening induced by intrinsicspin-orbit coupling in tetragonal FeS. The topological crystallineantiferromagnetic state is protected by the product of fractional translationsymmetry, mirror symmetry, and time-reversal symmetry, and present some uniquefeatures. In contrast to strong topological insulators, the topologicalrobustness is surface-dependent. These findings indicate that non-trivialtopological states could emerge in pure antiferromagnetic materials, whichsheds new light on potential applications of topological properties infast-developing antiferromagnetic spintronics.

Training Quantized Nets: A Deeper Understanding

  Currently, deep neural networks are deployed on low-power portable devices byfirst training a full-precision model using powerful hardware, and thenderiving a corresponding low-precision model for efficient inference on suchsystems. However, training models directly with coarsely quantized weights is akey step towards learning on embedded platforms that have limited computingresources, memory capacity, and power consumption. Numerous recent publicationshave studied methods for training quantized networks, but these studies havemostly been empirical. In this work, we investigate training methods forquantized neural networks from a theoretical viewpoint. We first exploreaccuracy guarantees for training methods under convexity assumptions. We thenlook at the behavior of these algorithms for non-convex problems, and show thattraining algorithms that exploit high-precision representations have animportant greedy search phase that purely quantized training methods lack,which explains the difficulty of training using low-precision arithmetic.

Energy-Efficient Power Allocation in Millimeter Wave Massive MIMO with  Non-Orthogonal Multiple Access

  In this letter, we investigate the energy efficiency (EE) problem in amillimeter wave (mmWave) massive MIMO (mMIMO) system with non-orthogonalmultiple access (NOMA). Multiple two-user clusters are formulated according totheir channel correlation and gain difference. Following this, we propose ahybrid analog/digital precoding scheme for the low radio frequency (RF) chainsstructure at the base station (BS). On this basis, we formulate a powerallocation problem aiming to maximize the EE under users' quality of service(QoS) requirements and per-cluster power constraint. An iterative algorithm isproposed to obtain the optimal power allocation. Simulation results show thatthe proposed NOMA achieves superior EE performance than that of conventionalOMA.

Keeping Context In Mind: Automating Mobile App Access Control with User  Interface Inspection

  Recent studies observe that app foreground is the most striking componentthat influences the access control decisions in mobile platform, as users tendto deny permission requests lacking visible evidence. However, none of theexisting permission models provides a systematic approach that canautomatically answer the question: Is the resource access indicated by appforeground? In this work, we present the design, implementation, and evaluationof COSMOS, a context-aware mediation system that bridges the semantic gapbetween foreground interaction and background access, in order to protectsystem integrity and user privacy. Specifically, COSMOS learns from a large setof apps with similar functionalities and user interfaces to construct genericmodels that detect the outliers at runtime. It can be further customized tosatisfy specific user privacy preference by continuously evolving with userdecisions. Experiments show that COSMOS achieves both high precision and highrecall in detecting malicious requests. We also demonstrate the effectivenessof COSMOS in capturing specific user preferences using the decisions collectedfrom 24 users and illustrate that COSMOS can be easily deployed on smartphonesas a real-time guard with a very low performance overhead.

Modeling Past and Future for Neural Machine Translation

  Existing neural machine translation systems do not explicitly model what hasbeen translated and what has not during the decoding phase. To address thisproblem, we propose a novel mechanism that separates the source informationinto two parts: translated Past contents and untranslated Future contents,which are modeled by two additional recurrent layers. The Past and Futurecontents are fed to both the attention model and the decoder states, whichoffers NMT systems the knowledge of translated and untranslated contents.Experimental results show that the proposed approach significantly improvestranslation performance in Chinese-English, German-English and English-Germantranslation tasks. Specifically, the proposed model outperforms theconventional coverage model in both of the translation quality and thealignment error rate.

Visualizing the Loss Landscape of Neural Nets

  Neural network training relies on our ability to find "good" minimizers ofhighly non-convex loss functions. It is well-known that certain networkarchitecture designs (e.g., skip connections) produce loss functions that traineasier, and well-chosen training parameters (batch size, learning rate,optimizer) produce minimizers that generalize better. However, the reasons forthese differences, and their effects on the underlying loss landscape, are notwell understood. In this paper, we explore the structure of neural lossfunctions, and the effect of loss landscapes on generalization, using a rangeof visualization methods. First, we introduce a simple "filter normalization"method that helps us visualize loss function curvature and make meaningfulside-by-side comparisons between loss functions. Then, using a variety ofvisualizations, we explore how network architecture affects the loss landscape,and how training parameters affect the shape of minimizers.

Detecting Statistically Significant Communities

  Community detection is a key data analysis problem across different fields.During the past decades, numerous algorithms have been proposed to address thisissue. However, most work on community detection does not address the issue ofstatistical significance. Although some research efforts have been made towardsmining statistically significant communities, deriving an analytical solutionof p-value for one community under the configuration model is still achallenging mission that remains unsolved. To partially fulfill this void, wepresent a tight upper bound on the p-value of a single community under theconfiguration model, which can be used for quantifying the statisticalsignificance of each community analytically. Meanwhile, we present a localsearch method to detect statistically significant communities in an iterativemanner. Experimental results demonstrate that our method is comparable with thecompeting methods on detecting statistically significant communities.

MIXGAN: Learning Concepts from Different Domains for Mixture Generation

  In this work, we present an interesting attempt on mixture generation:absorbing different image concepts (e.g., content and style) from differentdomains and thus generating a new domain with learned concepts. In particular,we propose a mixture generative adversarial network (MIXGAN). MIXGAN learnsconcepts of content and style from two domains respectively, and thus can jointhem for mixture generation in a new domain, i.e., generating images withcontent from one domain and style from another. MIXGAN overcomes the limitationof current GAN-based models which either generate new images in the same domainas they observed in training stage, or require off-the-shelf content templatesfor transferring or translation. Extensive experimental results demonstrate theeffectiveness of MIXGAN as compared to related state-of-the-art GAN-basedmodels.

High-Resolution Talking Face Generation via Mutual Information  Approximation

  Given an arbitrary speech clip and a facial image, talking face generationaims to synthesize a talking face video with precise lip synchronization aswell as a smooth transition of facial motion over the entire video speech. Mostexisting methods mainly focus on either disentangling the information in asingle image or learning temporal information between frames. However, speechaudio and video often have cross-modality coherence that has not been welladdressed during synthesis. Therefore, this paper proposes a novelhigh-resolution talking face generation model for arbitrary person bydiscovering the cross-modality coherence via Mutual Information Approximation(MIA). By assuming the modality difference between audio and video is largerthat of real video and generated video, we estimate mutual information betweenreal audio and video, and then use a discriminator to enforce generated videodistribution approach real video distribution. Furthermore, we introduce adynamic attention technique on the mouth to enhance the robustness during thetraining stage. Experimental results on benchmark dataset LRW transcend thestate-of-the-art methods on prevalent metrics with robustness on gender, posevariations and high-resolution synthesizing.

