Numerical solution to the Bloch equations, paramagnetic solutions under  wideband continuous radio frequency irradiation in a pulsed magnetic field

  A novel NMR experimental scheme, called wide band continuous wave NMR, ispresented in this article.

Maximal hypersurfaces over exterior domains

  In this paper, we study the exterior problem for the maximal surfaceequation. We obtain the precise asymptotic behavior of the exterior solution atinfinity. And we prove that the exterior Dirichlet problem is uniquely solvablegiven admissible boundary data and prescribed asymptotic behavior at infinity.

Spin scattering of a particle for periodic boundary conditions

  We have studied anomalous diffusion of a particle in a random medium in whichthe passage of the particle may modify the state of the visited sites. Thesimplicity of the dynamics allows analytic solution. Interesting propagationand organization behaviors will be reported.

Double Electromagnetically Induced Transparency in a Tripod-type Atom  System

  The electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) phenomenon in a four levelatomic system with tripod configuration is studied. The results show that thisconfiguration is equivalent to the combination of two single three-level$\Lambda$ configurations, which, under certain conditions, results in theso-called double-EIT (DEIT) phenomenon. The properties of the doubletransparency windows for DEIT are discussed in detail and the possibleexperimental scheme is proposed.

A note on the Ricci flow on noncompact manifolds

  Let $(M^3,g_0)$ be a complete noncompact Riemannian 3-manifold withnonnegative Ricci curvature and with injectivity radius bounded away from zero.Suppose that the scalar curvature $R(x)\to 0$ as $x\to \infty$. Then the Ricciflow with initial data $(M^3,g_0)$ has a long time solution. This extends arecent result of Ma and Zhu. We also have a higher dimensional version, and wereprove a K$\ddot{a}$hler analogy due to Chau, Tam and Yu.

Slow light of an amplitude modulated Gaussian pulse in  electromagnetically induced transparency medium

  The slow light effects of an amplitude modulated Gaussian (AMG) pulse in acesium atomic vapor are presented. In a single-$\Lambda$ typeelectromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) medium, more severe distortionis observed for an AMG pulse than a Gaussian one. Using Fourier spectrumanalysis, we find that the distortion, as well as the loss, is dominantlycaused by linear absorption than dispersion. Accordingly, a compensation methodis proposed to reshape the slow light pulse based on the transmission spectrum.In addition, we find a novel way to obtain simultaneous slow and fast light.

Truly random number generation via entropy amplification

  We present a simple setup to implement truly random number generator based onthe measurement of the laser phase noise. From the entropy point of view, weestimate the number of truly random bits that can be extracted from the sampledByte. With a simple method of adopting the $m$-least-significant-bit, weamplify the entropy of the original bit sequence and realize a truly random bitgeneration rate of $300$ Mbps.

Observation of Anticorrelation with Classical Light in a Linear Optical  System

  Two-photon anticorrelation is observed when laser and pseudothermal lightbeams are incident to the two input ports of a Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer,respectively. The spatial second-order interference pattern of laser andpseudothermal light beams is reported. Temporal Hong-Ou-Mandel dip is alsoobserved when these two detectors are at the symmetrical positions. Theseresults are helpful to understand the physics behind the second-orderinterference of light.

Constrained and Preconditioned Stochastic Gradient Method

  We consider stochastic approximations which arise from such applications asdata communications and image processing. We demonstrate why constraints areneeded in a stochastic approximation and how a constrained approximation can beincorporated into a preconditioning technique to derive the pre-conditionedstochastic gradient method (PSGM). We perform convergence analysis to show thatthe PSGM converges to the theoretical best approximation under some simpleassumptions on the preconditioner and on the independence of samples drawn froma stochastic process. Simulation results are presented to demonstrate theeffectiveness of the constrained and precondi-tioned stochastic gradientmethod.

Software for cut-generating functions in the Gomory--Johnson model and  beyond

  We present software for investigations with cut generating functions in theGomory-Johnson model and extensions, implemented in the computer algebra systemSageMath.

Equivariant Perturbation in Gomory and Johnson's Infinite Group Problem.  V. Software for the continuous and discontinuous 1-row case

  We present software for investigations with cut-generating functions in theGomory--Johnson model and extensions, implemented in the computer algebrasystem SageMath.

Mean Field Theory for Lossy Nonlinear Composites

  The mean-field theory for lossy nonlinear composites, described by complexand field-dependent dielectric functions, is presented. By using the spectralrepresentation of linear composites with identical microstructure, we developself-consistent equations for the effective response. We examine two types ofmicrostructure, namely, the Maxwell-Garnett approximation and the effectivemedium approximation to illustrate the theory.

Dielectric behaviors of corrugated membranes

  We have employed our recently developed Green's function formalism to studythe dielectric behavior of a model membrane, formed by two periodic interfacesseparating two media of different dielectric constants. The Maxwell's equationsare converted into a surface integral equation; thus it greatly simplifies thesolutions and yields accurate results for membranes of arbitrary shape. Theintegral equation is solved and dielectric dispersion spectrum is obtained fora model corrugated membrane. We report a giant dielectric dispersion as theamplitude of corrugation becomes large.

Hausdorff dimension, Mean quadratic variation of infinite self-similar  measures

  Under weaker condition than that of Riedi & Mandelbrot, the Hausdorff (andHausdorff-Besicovitch) dimension of infinite self-similar set K which is theinvariant compact set of infinite contractive similarities {S_j(x)} satisfyingopen set condition is obtained. It is proved (under some additional hypotheses)that the mean quadratic variation of infinite self-similar measure is ofasymptotic property.

Fiber based source of photon pairs at telecom band with high temporal  coherence and brightness for quantum information processing

  We experimentally demonstrate a bright pulsed source of correlated photonpairs at 1550 nm telecom band by pumping 300 m dispersion shifted fiber with a4 ps pulse train. We investigate the coherence property of the source bymeasuring the second order intensity correlation function $g^{(2)}$ ofindividual signal (idler) photons. A preliminary Hong-Ou-Mandel type two-photoninterference experiment with two such sources confirms the high temporal andspatial coherence of the source. The source is suitable for multi-photonquantum interference of independent sources, required in quantum informationprocessing.

Sensor Deployment for Air Pollution Monitoring Using Public  Transportation System

  Air pollution monitoring is a very popular research topic and many monitoringsystems have been developed. In this paper, we formulate the Bus SensorDeployment Problem (BSDP) to select the bus routes on which sensors aredeployed, and we use Chemical Reaction Optimization (CRO) to solve BSDP. CRO isa recently proposed metaheuristic designed to solve a wide range ofoptimization problems. Using the real world data, namely Hong Kong Island busroute data, we perform a series of simulations and the results show that CRO iscapable of solving this optimization problem efficiently.

Biharmonic hypersurfaces with constant scalar curvature in space forms

  Let $M^n$ be a biharmonic hypersurface with constant scalar curvature in aspace form $\mathbb M^{n+1}(c)$. We show that $M^n$ has constant mean curvatureif $c>0$ and $M^n$ is minimal if $c\leq0$, provided that the number of distinctprincipal curvatures is no more than 6. This partially confirms Chen'sconjecture and Generalized Chen's conjecture. As a consequence, we prove thatthere exist no proper biharmonic hypersurfaces with constant scalar curvaturein Euclidean space $\mathbb E^{n+1}$ or hyperbolic space $\mathbb H^{n+1}$ for$n<7$.

Sentence Simplification with Memory-Augmented Neural Networks

  Sentence simplification aims to simplify the content and structure of complexsentences, and thus make them easier to interpret for human readers, and easierto process for downstream NLP applications. Recent advances in neural machinetranslation have paved the way for novel approaches to the task. In this paper,we adapt an architecture with augmented memory capacities called NeuralSemantic Encoders (Munkhdalai and Yu, 2017) for sentence simplification. Ourexperiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on differentsimplification datasets, both in terms of automatic evaluation measures andhuman judgments.

Convergence of the Ginzburg-Landau approximation for the Ericksen-Leslie  system

  We establish the local well-posedness of the general Ericksen-Leslie systemin liquid crystals with the initial velocity and director field in $H^1 \timesH_b^2$. In particular, we prove that the solutions of the Ginzburg-Landauapproximation system converge smoothly to the solution of the Ericksen-Lesliesystem for any $t \in (0,T^\ast)$ with a maximal existence time $T^\ast$ of theEricksen- Leslie system.

Enhancement of Optical Nonlinearity Through Anisotropic Microstructures

  We investigate the polarization dependence of optical nonlinearityenhancement for a uniaxial anisotropic composite of metal nanocrystals in adielectric host. Three cases are distinguished depending on whether thepolarization is parallel, perpendicular or unpolarized with respect to the axisof anisotropy. For the parallel polarization, the results show that the 3Dresults are qualitatively similar to the 2D case reported recently. For theperpendicular polarization, the results are markedly different from theparallel counterpart: In contrast to the absorption, the enhancement factoractually increases with the anisotropy. Thus the separation of the absorptionand enhancement peaks becomes even more pronounced than the parallelpolarization case. These results indicate a strong polarization dependence ofthe nonlinear optical response.

Dielectric Behavior of Nonspherical Cell Suspensions

  Recent experiments revealed that the dielectric dispersion spectrum offission yeast cells in a suspension was mainly composed of two sub-dispersions.The low-frequency sub-dispersion depended on the cell length, whereas thehigh-frequency one was independent of it. The cell shape effect wasqualitatively simulated by an ellipsoidal cell model. However, the comparisonbetween theory and experiment was far from being satisfactory. In an attempt toclose up the gap between theory and experiment, we considered the morerealistic cells of spherocylinders, i.e., circular cylinders with twohemispherical caps at both ends. We have formulated a Green function formalismfor calculating the spectral representation of cells of finite length. TheGreen function can be reduced because of the azimuthal symmetry of the cell.This simplification enables us to calculate the dispersion spectrum and henceaccess the effect of cell structure on the dielectric behavior of cellsuspensions.

Spectral Representation Theory for Dielectric Behavior of Nonspherical  Cell Suspensions

  Recent experiments revealed that the dielectric dispersion spectrum offission yeast cells in a suspension was mainly composed of two sub-dispersions.The low-frequency sub-dispersion depended on the cell length, while thehigh-frequency one was independent of it. The cell shape effect was simulatedby an ellipsoidal cell model but the comparison between theory and experimentwas far from being satisfactory. Prompted by the discrepancy, we proposed theuse of spectral representation to analyze more realistic cell models. Weadopted a shell-spheroidal model to analyze the effects of the cell membrane.It is found that the dielectric property of the cell membrane has only a minoreffect on the dispersion magnitude ratio and the characteristic frequencyratio. We further included the effect of rotation of dipole induced by anexternal electric field, and solved the dipole-rotation spheroidal model in thespectral representation. Good agreement between theory and experiment has beenobtained.

DNN Filter Bank Cepstral Coefficients for Spoofing Detection

  With the development of speech synthesis techniques, automatic speakerverification systems face the serious challenge of spoofing attack. In order toimprove the reliability of speaker verification systems, we develop a newfilter bank based cepstral feature, deep neural network filter bank cepstralcoefficients (DNN-FBCC), to distinguish between natural and spoofed speech. Thedeep neural network filter bank is automatically generated by training a filterbank neural network (FBNN) using natural and synthetic speech. By addingrestrictions on the training rules, the learned weight matrix of FBNN isband-limited and sorted by frequency, similar to the normal filter bank. Unlikethe manually designed filter bank, the learned filter bank has different filtershapes in different channels, which can capture the differences between naturaland synthetic speech more effectively. The experimental results on the ASVspoof{2015} database show that the Gaussian mixture model maximum-likelihood(GMM-ML) classifier trained by the new feature performs better than thestate-of-the-art linear frequency cepstral coefficients (LFCC) basedclassifier, especially on detecting unknown attacks.

A modified Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer for two-parameter sensing

  A modification of the standard Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer is proposed thatallows one to recover two independent parameters (delays) via the coincidencecounts measured at the output of the setup. In the ideal case where such delaysare sufficiently stable with respect to the mean wavelength of the pump source,properly symmetrized input bi-photon states allow one to pinpoint their valuesthrough the identification of a zero in the coincidence counts, a feature thatcannot be simulated by semiclassical inputs. Besides, in the presence offluctuating parameters the zero in the coincidences is washed away: still thebi-photon state permits to recover the values of parameters with a visibilitywhich is higher than the one allowed by semiclassical sources. The detrimentalrole of loss and dispersion is also analyzed and an application in the contextof quantum positioning is presented.

Temporal Dark Solitons in Nonuniform Bose-Einstein Condensates

  We discuss temporal dark solitons in confined nonuniform Bose condensates. Asa kind of localized high excitation, these solitons can be viewed asmacroscopic quasiparticles, having relative motion to the backgroundcondensate. We get an analytic expression for one dark soliton under a slowlyvarying approximation and discuss its special propagation properties in anonuniform condensate, then we numerically prove that this approximation isreasonable and this kind of soliton exhibits their propagation properties inthe nonuniform condensate. Finally, we simulate the generation ofdark-soliton-like pulses in the condensate, and indicate that the excitationexperiment, done by Ketterle and co-workers [Phys. Rev. Lett. 79, 553 (1997)],can also be interpreted in terms of temporal dark soliton.

Slow Light of an Amplitude Modulated Gaussian Pulse in Cesium Vapor

  Slow light of an amplitude modulated Gaussian (AMG) pulse in cesium vapor isdemonstrated and studied, as an appropriate amplitude modulation to a singlepulse can expand its spectrum and thus increase the utilization efficiency ofthe bandwidth of a slow light system. In a single-$\Lambda$ typeelectromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) system, the slowed AMG pulseexperiences severe distortion, mainly owing to the frequency dependenttransmission of medium. Additionally, due to its spectral distribution, thefrequency dependent dispersion of the medium causes simultaneous slow and fastlight of different spectral components and thus a certain dispersive distortionof the AMG pulse. Further, a post-processing method is proposed to recover theslowed (distorted) pulse, which indicates that by introducing a linear opticalsystem with a desired gain spectrum we can recover the pulse in an"all-optical" way. Finally, we discuss the limitations during this compensationprocedure in detail. Although it is demonstrated in the cesium vapor using EIT,this method should be applicable to a wide range of slow light systems.

Truly Random Number Generation Based on Measurement of Phase Noise of  Laser

  We present a simple approach to realize truly random number generation basedon measurement of the phase noise of a single mode vertical cavity surfaceemitting laser (VCSEL). The true randomness of the quantum phase noiseoriginates from the spontaneous emission of photons and the random bitgeneration rate is ultimately limited only by the laser linewidth. With thefinal bit generation rate of 20 Mbit/s, the physically guaranteed truly randombit sequence passes the three standard random tests. Moreover, for the firsttime, a {\it continuously} generated random bit sequence up to 14 Gbit isverified by two additional criteria for its true randomness.

Macroscopic Hong-Ou-Mandel interference

  We report on a Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) interference experiment for quantumstates with photon numbers per mode as large as 10^6 generated via high-gainparametric down conversion (PDC). The standard technique of coincidencecounting leads in this case to a dip with a very low visibility. By measuring,instead of coincidence rate, the variance of the photon-number difference, weobserve a peak with 99.99% visibility. From the shape of the peak, one caninfer information about the temporal mode structure of the PDC radiation,including the degree of frequency/time entanglement.

Near-infrared Hong-Ou-Mandel interference on a silicon quantum photonic  circuit

  Near-infrared Hong-Ou-Mandel quantum interference is observed in siliconnanophotonic directional couplers with raw visibilities on-chip at 90.5%.Spectrally-bright 1557-nm two-photon states are generated in aperiodically-poled KTiOPO4 waveguide chip, serving as the entangled photonsource and pumped with a self-injection locked laser, for the photonstatistical measurements. Efficient four-port coupling in the communicationsC-band and in the high-index-contrast silicon photonics platform isdemonstrated, with matching theoretical predictions of the quantum interferencevisibility. Constituents for the residual quantum visibility imperfection areexamined, supported with theoretical analysis of the sequentially-triggeredmultipair biphoton contribution and techniques for visibility compensation,towards scalable high-bitrate quantum information processing andcommunications.

Ultrafast Charge Transfer in Atomically Thin MoS2/WS2 Heterostructures

  Van der Waals heterostructures have recently emerged as a new class ofmaterials, where quantum coupling between stacked atomically thintwo-dimensional (2D) layers, including graphene, hexagonal-boron nitride, andtransition metal dichalcogenides (MX2), give rise to fascinating new phenomena.MX2 heterostructures are particularly exciting for novel optoelectronic andphotovoltaic applications, because 2D MX2 monolayers can have an opticalbandgap in the near-infrared to visible spectral range and exhibit extremelystrong light-matter interactions. Theory predicts that many stacked MX2heterostructures form type-II semiconductor heterojunctions that facilitateefficient electron-hole separation for light detection and harvesting. Here wereport the first experimental observation of ultrafast charge transfer inphoto-excited MoS2/WS2 heterostructures using both photoluminescence mappingand femtosecond (fs) pump-probe spectroscopy. We show that hole transfer fromthe MoS2 layer to the WS2 layer takes place within 50 fs after opticalexcitation, a remarkable rate for van der Waals coupled 2D layers. Suchultrafast charge transfer in van der Waals heterostructures can enable novel 2Ddevices for optoelectronics and light harvesting.

Smartphone microendoscopy for high resolution fluorescence imaging

  High resolution optical endoscopes are increasingly used in diagnosis ofvarious medical conditions of internal organs, such as the gastrointestinaltracts, but they are too expensive for use in resource-poor settings. On theother hand, smartphones with high resolution cameras and Internet access havebecome more affordable, enabling them to diffuse into most rural areas anddeveloping countries in the past decade. In this letter we describe asmartphone microendoscope that can take fluorescence images with a spatialresolution of 3.1 {\mu}m. Images collected from ex vivo, in vitro and in vivosamples using the device are also presented. The compact and cost-effectivesmartphone microendoscope may be envisaged as a powerful tool for detectingpre-cancerous lesions of internal organs in low and middle income countries.

Multi-modal Face Pose Estimation with Multi-task Manifold Deep Learning

  Human face pose estimation aims at estimating the gazing direction or headpostures with 2D images. It gives some very important information such ascommunicative gestures, saliency detection and so on, which attracts plenty ofattention recently. However, it is challenging because of complex background,various orientations and face appearance visibility. Therefore, a descriptiverepresentation of face images and mapping it to poses are critical. In thispaper, we make use of multi-modal data and propose a novel face pose estimationmethod that uses a novel deep learning framework named Multi-task Manifold DeepLearning $M^2DL$. It is based on feature extraction with improved deep neuralnetworks and multi-modal mapping relationship with multi-task learning. In theproposed deep learning based framework, Manifold Regularized ConvolutionalLayers (MRCL) improve traditional convolutional layers by learning therelationship among outputs of neurons. Besides, in the proposed mappingrelationship learning method, different modals of face representations arenaturally combined to learn the mapping function from face images to poses. Inthis way, the computed mapping model with multiple tasks is improved.Experimental results on three challenging benchmark datasets DPOSE, HPID andBKHPD demonstrate the outstanding performance of $M^2DL$.

Analysis of the Game-Theoretic Modeling of Backscatter Wireless Sensor  Networks under Smart Interference

  In this paper, we study an interference avoidance scenario in the presence ofa smart interferer which can rapidly observe the transmit power of abackscatter wireless sensor network (WSN) and effectively interrupt backscattersignals. We consider a power control with a sub-channel allocation to avoidinterference attacks and a time-switching ratio for backscattering and RFenergy harvesting in backscatter WSNs. We formulate the problem based on aStackelberg game theory and compute the optimal transmit power, time-switchingratio, and sub-channel allocation parameter to maximize a utility functionagainst the smart interference. We propose two algorithms for the utilitymaximization using Lagrangian dual decomposition for the backscatter WSN andthe smart interference to prove the existence of the Stackelberg equilibrium.Numerical results show that the proposed algorithms effectively maximize theutility, compared to that of the algorithm based on the Nash game, so as toovercome smart interference in backscatter communications.

Sentence Embedding Alignment for Lifelong Relation Extraction

  Conventional approaches to relation extraction usually require a fixed set ofpre-defined relations. Such requirement is hard to meet in many realapplications, especially when new data and relations are emerging incessantlyand it is computationally expensive to store all data and re-train the wholemodel every time new data and relations come in. We formulate such achallenging problem as lifelong relation extraction and investigatememory-efficient incremental learning methods without catastrophicallyforgetting knowledge learned from previous tasks. We first investigate amodified version of the stochastic gradient methods with a replay memory, whichsurprisingly outperforms recent state-of-the-art lifelong learning methods. Wefurther propose to improve this approach to alleviate the forgetting problem byanchoring the sentence embedding space. Specifically, we utilize an explicitalignment model to mitigate the sentence embedding distortion of the learnedmodel when training on new data and new relations. Experiment results onmultiple benchmarks show that our proposed method significantly outperforms thestate-of-the-art lifelong learning approaches.

LFVN observations of active galactic nuclei

  In November 1999 we carried out VLBI observations of several quasars and BLLacertae objects at 1.66 GHz. Six antennas participated in the experiment (BearLakes, Svetloe, Pushchino, Noto, HartRAO, and Seshan). The results for sixsources (0420+022, 0420-014, 1308+326, 1345+125, 1803+784, and DA193) arepresented and discussed.

Local-field distribution in resonant composites: Green's-function  formalism

  The effective response depends sensitively on composite microstructure due tolarge fluctuations in the local electric field. For metallic clusters embeddedin a dielectric host, the local field distributions are extremely inhomogeneousin space around the metallic clusters due to quasi-static resonance, leading toa large enhancement in the effective linear and nonlinear responses. In thiswork, we propose a general method for computing the electric field of metallicclusters near resonance via a perturbation formalism. We illustrate the methodby simple examples.

Is $f_1(1420)$ the partner of $f_1(1285)$ in the $^3P_1$ $q\bar{q}$  nonet?

  Based on a $2\times 2$ mass matrix, the mixing angle of the axial vectorstates $f_1(1420)$ and $f_1(1285)$ is determined to be $51.5^{\circ}$, and thetheoretical results about the decay and production of the two states arepresented. The theoretical results are in good agreement with the presentexperimental results, which suggests that $f_1(1420)$ can be assigned as thepartner of $f_1(1285)$ in the $^3P_1$ $q\bar{q}$ nonet. We also suggest thatthe existence of $f_1(1510)$ needs further experimental confirmation.

Modification of Kawai model about the mixing of the pseudoscalar mesons

  The Kawai model describing the glueball-quarkonia mixing is modified. Themixing of $\eta$, $\eta^\prime$ and $\eta(1410)$ is re-investigated based onthe modified Kawai model. The glueball-quarkonia content of the three states isdetermined from a fit to the data of the electromagnetic decays involving$\eta$, $\eta^\prime$. Some predictions about the electromagnetic decaysinvolving $\eta(1410)$ are presented.

Properties of the scalar mesons $f_0(1370)$, $f_0(1500)$ and $f_0(1710)$

  In the three-state mixing framework, considering the possible glueballcomponents of $\eta$ and $\eta^\prime$, we investigate the hadronic decays of$f_0(1370)$, $f_0(1500)$ and $f_0(1710)$ into two pseudoscalar mesons. Thequarkonia-glueball content of the three states is determined from the fit tothe new data presented by the WA102 Collaboration. We find that these data areinsensitive to the possible glueball components of $\eta$ and $\eta^\prime$.Furthermore, we discuss some properties of the mass matrix describing themixing of the isoscalar scalar mesons.

On the mass relation of a meson nonet

  It is pointed out that the omission of the effects of the transition betweenquarkonia or the assumption that the transition between quarkonia isflavor-independent would result in the inconsistent results for thepseudoscalar meson nonet. It is emphasized that the mass relation of thenon-ideal mixing meson nonets should incorporate the effects of theflavor-dependent transition between quarkonia. The new mass relations of ameson nonet are presented.

Meson spectrum in Regge phenomenology

  Under the assumption that both light and heavy quarkonia populateapproximately linear Regge trajectories with the requirements of additivity ofintercepts and inverse slopes, the masses of different meson multiplets areestimated. The predictions derived from the quasi-linear Regge trajectories arein reasonable agreement with those given by many other references.

Entanglement generation in double-$Λ$ system

  In this paper, we study the generation of entanglement in a double-$\Lambda $system. Employing standard method of laser theory, we deduce the dynamicevolution equation of the two-mode field. We analyze the available entanglementcriterion for double-$\Lambda $ system and the condition of entanglementexistence. Our results show that under proper parameters, the two-mode fieldcan entangled and amlified.

Metallic helix array as a broadband wave plate

  This study proposes that a metallic helix array can operate as ahighly-transparent broadband wave plate in propagation directions perpendicularto the axis of helices. The functionality arises from a special property of thehelix array, namely that the eigenstates of elliptically right-handed andleft-handed polarization are dominated by Bragg scattering and local resonancerespectively, and can be modulated separately with nearly fixed differencebetween their wavevectors in a wide frequency range. The wave platefunctionality is theoretically and experimentally demonstrated by thetransformation of polarized states in a wide frequency range.

A doubly rotating black ring with dipole charge

  We present a dipole-charged generalisation of the Pomeransky-Sen'kov blackring in five-dimensional Kaluza-Klein theory. It rotates in two independentdirections, although one of the rotations has been tuned to achieve balance, sothat the space-time does not contain any conical singularities. This solutionwas constructed using the inverse-scattering method in six-dimensional vacuumgravity. We then study various physical properties of this solution, withparticular emphasis on the new features that the dipole charge introduces.

Variation of polarization distribution of reflected beam caused by spin  separation

  The variation of polarization distribution of reflected beam at specularinterface and far field caused by spin separation has been studied. Due to thediffraction effect, we find a distinct difference of light polarization at thetwo regions. The variation of polarization distribution of reflected lightprovides a new method to measure the spin separation displacement caused bySpin Hall Effect of light.

Spin polarization separation of reflected light at Brewster angle

  A novel spin polarization separation of reflected light is observed, when alinearly polarized Gaussian beam impinges on an air-glass interface at Brewsterangle. In the far-field zone, spins of photons are oppositely polarized in tworegions along the direction perpendicular to incident plane. Spatial scale ofthis polarization is related to optical properties of dielectric and can becontrolled by experimental configuration. We believe that this study benefitsthe manipulation of spins of photons and the development of methods forinvestigating optical properties of materials.

Deutsch's algorithm with topological charges of optical vortices via  non-degenerate four-wave mixing

  We propose a scheme to implement the Deutsch's algorithm throughnon-degenerate four-wave mixing process. By employing photon topologicalcharges of optical vortices, we demonstrate the ability to realize thenecessary four logic gates for all balanced and constant functions. We alsoanalyze the feasibility of the proposed scheme on the single photon level.

Structural Changes Related to the Magnetic Transitions in Hexagonal  InMnO3

  Two magnetic ordering transitions are found in InMnO3, the paramagnetic toantiferromagnetic transition near ~118 K and a lower possible spin rotationtransition near ~42 K. Multiple length scale structural measurements revealenhanced local distortion found to be connected with tilting of the MnO5polyhedra as temperature is reduced. Strong coupling is observed between thelattice and the spin manifested as changes in the structure near both of themagnetic ordering temperatures (at ~42 K and ~ 118 K). External parameters suchas pressure are expected to modify the coupling.

Visual properties of generalized Kloosterman sums

  For a positive integer $m$ and a subgroup $\Lambda$ of the unit group$(\mathbb{Z}/m\mathbb{Z})^\times$, the corresponding generalized Kloostermansum is the function $K(a,b,m,\Lambda) = \sum_{u \in \Lambda}e(\frac{au +bu^{-1}}{m})$. Unlike classical Kloosterman sums, which are real valued,generalized Kloosterman sums display a surprising array of visual features whentheir values are plotted in the complex plane. In a variety of instances, weidentify the precise number-theoretic conditions that give rise to particularphenomena.

Noiseless Linear Amplifiers in Entanglement-Based Continuous-Variable  Quantum Key Distribution

  We propose a method to improve the performance of two entanglement-basedcontinuous-variable quantum key distribution protocols using noiseless linearamplifiers. The two entanglement-based schemes consist of an entanglementdistribution protocol with an untrusted source and an entanglement swappingprotocol with an untrusted relay. Simulation results show that the noiselesslinear amplifiers can improve the performance of these two protocols, in termsof maximal transmission distances, when we consider small amounts ofentanglement, as typical in realistic setups.

