Geometric visualization of self-propulsion in a complex medium

  Combining geometric mechanics theory, laboratory robotic experiment andnumerical simulation, we study the locomotion in granular media (GM) of thesimplest non-inertial swimmer, the Purcell three-link swimmer. Using granularresistive force laws as inputs, the theory relates translation and rotation ofthe body to shape changes (movements of the links). This allows analysis,visualization, and prediction of effective movements that are verified byexperiment. The geometric approach also facilitates comparison between swimmingin GM and in viscous fluids.

Sidewinding with minimal slip: Snake and robot ascent of sandy slopes

  Limbless organisms such as snakes can navigate nearly all terrain. Inparticular, desert-dwelling sidewinder rattlesnakes (Crotalus cerastes) operateeffectively on inclined granular media (such as sand dunes) that induce failurein field-tested limbless robots through slipping and pitching. Our laboratoryexperiments reveal that as granular incline angle increases, sidewinderrattlesnakes increase the length of their body in contact with the sand.Implementing this strategy in a physical robot model of the snake enables thedevice to ascend sandy slopes close to the angle of maximum slope stability.Plate drag experiments demonstrate that granular yield stresses decrease withincreasing incline angle. Together, these three approaches demonstrate howsidewinding with contact-length control mitigates failure on granular media.

Rapid Randomized Restarts for Multi-Agent Path Finding Solvers

  Multi-Agent Path Finding (MAPF) is an NP-hard problem well studied inartificial intelligence and robotics. It has many real-world applications forwhich existing MAPF solvers use various heuristics. However, these solvers aredeterministic and perform poorly on "hard" instances typically characterized bymany agents interfering with each other in a small region. In this paper, weenhance MAPF solvers with randomization and observe that they exhibitheavy-tailed distributions of runtimes on hard instances. This leads us todevelop simple rapid randomized restart (RRR) strategies with the intuitionthat, given a hard instance, multiple short runs have a better chance ofsolving it compared to one long run. We validate this intuition throughexperiments and show that our RRR strategies indeed boost the performance ofstate-of-the-art MAPF solvers such as iECBS and M*.

Ergodic Coverage In Constrained Environments Using Stochastic Trajectory  Optimization

  In search and surveillance applications in robotics, it is intuitive tospatially distribute robot trajectories with respect to the probability oflocating targets in the domain. Ergodic coverage is one such approach totrajectory planning in which a robot is directed such that the percentage oftime spent in a region is in proportion to the probability of locating targetsin that region. In this work, we extend the ergodic coverage algorithm torobots operating in constrained environments and present a formulation that cancapture sensor footprint and avoid obstacles and restricted areas in thedomain. We demonstrate that our formulation easily extends to coordination ofmultiple robots equipped with different sensing capabilities to perform ergodiccoverage of a domain.

Modelling and Path Planning of Snake Robot in cluttered environment

  Studying snake robot locomotion in a cluttered environment has been acomplicated task because the motion model is discontinuous due to the physicalcontact with obstacles, and the contact force cannot be determined solely bycontact positions. We present a unique mathematical model of the robotinteracting with obstacles in which the contact forces are mapped on the basisof a viscous friction model. Also a motion planning strategy has beenintroduced which helps deriving the simplest path that ensures sufficientnumber of contacts of the robot with the obstacles required to reach a goalposition. Numerical simulations and experimental results are presented tovalidate the theoretical approach.

Trajectory-Optimized Sensing for Active Search of Tissue Abnormalities  in Robotic Surgery

  In this work, we develop an approach for guiding robots to automaticallylocalize and find the shapes of tumors and other stiff inclusions present inthe anatomy. Our approach uses Gaussian processes to model the stiffnessdistribution and active learning to direct the palpation path of the robot. Thepalpation paths are chosen such that they maximize an acquisition functionprovided by an active learning algorithm. Our approach provides the flexibilityto avoid obstacles in the robot's path, incorporate uncertainties in robotposition and sensor measurements, include prior information about location ofstiff inclusions while respecting the robot-kinematics. To the best of ourknowledge this is the first work in literature that considers all the aboveconditions while localizing tumors. The proposed framework is evaluated viasimulation and experimentation on three different robot platforms: 6-DoFindustrial arm, da Vinci Research Kit (dVRK), and the Insertable RoboticEffector Platform (IREP). Results show that our approach can accuratelyestimate the locations and boundaries of the stiff inclusions while reducingexploration time.

A surgical system for automatic registration, stiffness mapping and  dynamic image overlay

  In this paper we develop a surgical system using the da Vinci research kit(dVRK) that is capable of autonomously searching for tumors and dynamicallydisplaying the tumor location using augmented reality. Such a system has thepotential to quickly reveal the location and shape of tumors and visuallyoverlay that information to reduce the cognitive overload of the surgeon. Webelieve that our approach is one of the first to incorporate state-of-the-artmethods in registration, force sensing and tumor localization into a unifiedsurgical system. First, the preoperative model is registered to theintra-operative scene using a Bingham distribution-based filtering approach. Anactive level set estimation is then used to find the location and the shape ofthe tumors. We use a recently developed miniature force sensor to perform thepalpation. The estimated stiffness map is then dynamically overlaid onto theregistered preoperative model of the organ. We demonstrate the efficacy of oursystem by performing experiments on phantom prostate models with embedded stiffinclusions.

Trajectory Generation for Millimeter Scale Ferromagnetic Swimmers:  Theory and Experiments

  Microrobots have the potential to impact many areas such as microsurgery,micromanipulation and minimally invasive sensing. Due to their small size,microrobots swim in a regime that is governed by low Reynolds numberhydrodynamics. In this paper, we consider small scale artificial swimmers thatare fabricated using ferromagnetic filaments and locomote in response to timevarying external magnetic fields. We motivate the design of previously proposedcontrol laws using tools from geometric mechanics and also demonstrate how newcontrol laws can be synthesized to generate net translation in such swimmers.We further describe how to modify these control inputs to make the swimmerstrack rich trajectories in the workspace by investigating stability propertiesof their limit cycles in the orientation angles phase space. Following asystematic design optimization, we develop a principled approach to encodeinternal magnetization distributions in millimeter scale ferromagneticfilaments. We verify and demonstrate this procedure experimentally and finallyshow translation, trajectory tracking and turning in place locomotion in theseoptimal swimmers using a Helmholtz coils setup.

Using Bayesian Optimization to Guide Probing of a Flexible Environment  for Simultaneous Registration and Stiffness Mapping

  One of the goals of computer-aided surgery is to match intraoperative data topreoperative images of the anatomy and add complementary information that canfacilitate the task of surgical navigation. In this context, mechanicalpalpation can reveal critical anatomical features such as arteries andcancerous lumps which are stiffer that the surrounding tissue. This work usesposition and force measurements obtained during mechanical palpation forregistration and stiffness mapping. Prior approaches, including our own,exhaustively palpated the entire organ to achieve this goal. To overcome thecostly palpation of the entire organ, a Bayesian optimization framework isintroduced to guide the end effector to palpate stiff regions whilesimultaneously updating the registration of the end effector to an a priorigeometric model of the organ, hence enabling the fusion of ntraoperative datainto the a priori model obtained through imaging. This new framework usesGaussian processes to model the stiffness distribution and Bayesianoptimization to direct where to sample next for maximum information gain. Theproposed method was evaluated with experimental data obtained using a Cartesianrobot interacting with a silicone organ model and an ex vivo porcine liver.

Next Generation Robotics

  The National Robotics Initiative (NRI) was launched 2011 and is about tocelebrate its 5 year anniversary. In parallel with the NRI, the roboticscommunity, with support from the Computing Community Consortium, engaged in aseries of road mapping exercises. The first version of the roadmap appeared inSeptember 2009; a second updated version appeared in 2013. While not directlyaligned with the NRI, these road-mapping documents have provided both a usefulcharting of the robotics research space, as well as a metric by which tomeasure progress. This report sets forth a perspective of progress in roboticsover the past five years, and provides a set of recommendations for the future.The NRI has in its formulation a strong emphasis on co-robot, i.e., robots thatwork directly with people. An obvious question is if this should continue to bethe focus going forward? To try to assess what are the main trends, what hashappened the last 5 years and what may be promising directions for the future asmall CCC sponsored study was launched to have two workshops, one in WashingtonDC (March 5th, 2016) and another in San Francisco, CA (March 11th, 2016). Inthis report we brief summarize some of the main discussions and observationsfrom those workshops. We will present a variety of background information inSection 2, and outline various issues related to progress over the last 5 yearsin Section 3. In Section 4 we will outline a number of opportunities for movingforward. Finally, we will summarize the main points in Section 5.

Learning to Sequence Robot Behaviors for Visual Navigation

  Recent literature in the robotics community has focused on learning robotbehaviors that abstract out lower-level details of robot control. To fullyleverage the efficacy of such behaviors, it is necessary to select and sequencethem to achieve a given task. In this paper, we present an approach to bothlearn and sequence robot behaviors, applied to the problem of visual navigationof mobile robots. We construct a layered representation of control policiescomposed of low- level behaviors and a meta-level policy. The low-levelbehaviors enable the robot to locomote in a particular environment whileavoiding obstacles, and the meta-level policy actively selects the low-levelbehavior most appropriate for the current situation based purely on visualfeedback. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on three simulatedrobot navigation tasks: a legged hexapod robot which must successfully traversevarying terrain, a wheeled robot which must navigate a maze-like course whileavoiding obstacles, and finally a wheeled robot navigating in the presence ofdynamic obstacles. We show that by learning control policies in a layeredmanner, we gain the ability to successfully traverse new compound environmentscomposed of distinct sub-environments, and outperform both the low-levelbehaviors in their respective sub-environments, as well as a hand-craftedselection of low-level policies on these compound environments.

Distributed Learning of Decentralized Control Policies for Articulated  Mobile Robots

  State-of-the-art distributed algorithms for reinforcement learning rely onmultiple independent agents, which simultaneously learn in parallelenvironments while asynchronously updating a common, shared policy. Moreover,decentralized control architectures (e.g., CPGs) can coordinate spatiallydistributed portions of an articulated robot to achieve system-levelobjectives. In this work, we investigate the relationship between distributedlearning and decentralized control by learning decentralized control policiesfor the locomotion of articulated robots in challenging environments. To thisend, we present an approach that leverages the structure of the asynchronousadvantage actor-critic (A3C) algorithm to provide a natural means of learningdecentralized control policies on a single articulated robot. Our primarycontribution shows individual agents in the A3C algorithm can be defined byindependently controlled portions of the robot's body, thus enablingdistributed learning on a single robot for efficient hardware implementation.We present results of closed-loop locomotion in unstructured terrains on asnake and a hexapod robot, using decentralized controllers learned offline andonline respectively.  Preprint of the paper submitted to the IEEE Transactions in Robotics (T-RO)journal in October 2018, and conditionally accepted for publication as aregular paper in January 2019.

A review on locomotion robophysics: the study of movement at the  intersection of robotics, soft matter and dynamical systems

  In this review we argue for the creation of a physics of moving systems -- alocomotion "robophysics" -- which we define as the pursuit of the discovery ofprinciples of self generated motion. Robophysics can provide an importantintellectual complement to the discipline of robotics, largely the domain ofresearchers from engineering and computer science. The essential idea is thatwe must complement study of complex robots in complex situations withsystematic study of simplified robophysical devices in controlled laboratorysettings and simplified theoretical models. We must thus use the methods ofphysics to examine successful and failed locomotion in simplified (abstracted)devices using parameter space exploration, systematic control, and techniquesfrom dynamical systems. Using examples from our and other's research, we willdiscuss how such robophysical studies have begun to aid engineers in thecreation of devices that begin to achieve life-like locomotor abilities on andwithin complex environments, have inspired interesting physics questions in lowdimensional dynamical systems, geometric mechanics and soft matter physics, andhave been useful to develop models for biological locomotion in complexterrain. The rapidly decreasing cost of constructing sophisticated robot modelswith easy access to significant computational power bodes well for scientistsand engineers to engage in a discipline which can readily integrate experiment,theory and computation.

PRIMAL: Pathfinding via Reinforcement and Imitation Multi-Agent Learning

  Multi-agent path finding (MAPF) is an essential component of manylarge-scale, real-world robot deployments, from aerial swarms to warehouseautomation. However, despite the community's continued efforts, moststate-of-the-art MAPF planners still rely on centralized planning and scalepoorly past a few hundred agents. Such planning approaches are maladapted toreal-world deployments, where noise and uncertainty often require paths berecomputed online, which is impossible when planning times are in seconds tominutes. We present PRIMAL, a novel framework for MAPF that combinesreinforcement and imitation learning to teach fully-decentralized policies,where agents reactively plan paths online in a partially-observable world whileexhibiting implicit coordination. This framework extends our previous work ondistributed learning of collaborative policies by introducing demonstrations ofan expert MAPF planner during training, as well as careful reward shaping andenvironment sampling. Once learned, the resulting policy can be copied onto anynumber of agents and naturally scales to different team sizes and worlddimensions. We present results on randomized worlds with up to 1024 agents andcompare success rates against state-of-the-art MAPF planners. Finally, weexperimentally validate the learned policies in a hybrid simulation of afactory mockup, involving both real-world and simulated robots.

