Hypersurfaces with constant anisotropic mean curvatures

  We apply the evolution method to present a new proof of the Alexandrov typetheorem for constant anisotropic mean curvature hypersurfaces in the Euclideanspace $\mathbb{R}^{n+1}$.

Strong uniqueness for a class of singular SDEs for catalytic branching  diffusions

  A new result for the strong uniqueness for catalytic branching diffusions isestablished, which improves the work of Dawson, D.A.; Fleischmann, K.; Xiong,J.[Strong uniqueness for cyclically symbiotic branching diffusions. Statist.Probab. Lett. 73, no. 3, 251--257 (2005)].

Size effects on excitons in nano-rings

  The size effects of an exciton in a nano-ring are investigated theoreticallyby using an effective-mass Hamiltonian which can be separated in terms of thecenter-of-mass and relative coordinates. The binding energy and oscillatorstrength of the ground state are calculated for two different ring radii as afunction of the ring width. The resulting linear optical susceptibility of thelow-lying exciton states is also discussed.

Topological defect lasers

  We demonstrate topological defect lasers in a GaAs membrane with embeddedInAs quantum dots. By introducing a disclination to a square-lattice ofelliptical air holes, we obtain spatially confined optical resonances with highquality factor. Such resonances support powerflow vortices, and lase uponoptical excitation of quantum dots, embedded in the structure. The spatiallyinhomogeneous variation of the unit cell orientation adds another dimension tothe control of a lasing mode, enabling the manipulation of its field patternand energy flow landscape.

Every component of a fractal square is a Peano continuum

  This paper concerns the local connectedness of components of self-similarsets. Given an equal partition of the unit square into n*n small squares, wemay choose arbitrarily two or more of them and form an iterated functionsystem. The attractor F resulted from this IFS is called a fractal square. Weprove that every component of F is locally connected. The same result forthree-dimensional analogues of F does not hold.

Studies on the switching speed effect of the phase shift keying in SLED  for generating high power microwave

  SLAC energy doubler (SLED) type radio-frequency pulse compressors are widelyused in large-scale particle accelerators for converting long-durationmoderate-power input pulse into short-duration high-power output pulse. Thephase shift keying (PSK) is one of the key components in SLED pulse compressionsystems. Performance of the PSK will influence the output characteristics ofSLED, such as rise-time of the output pulse, the maximal peak power gain, andthe energy efficiency. In this paper, high power microwave source based onpower combining and pulse compression of conventional klystrons was introduced,the nonideal PSK with slow switching speed and without power output during theswitching process were investigated, the experimental results with nonideal PSKagreed well with the analytical results.

High power microwave system based on power combining and pulse  compression of conventional klystrons

  A high power microwave system based on power combining and pulse compressionof conventional klystrons is introduced in this paper. This system mainlyconsists of pulse modulator, power combiner, driving source of klystrons andpulse compressor. A solid state induction modulator and pulse transformer wereused to drive two 50 MW S-band klystrons with pulse widths 4 {\mu}s inparallel, after power combining and pulse compression, the tested peak powerhad reached about 210 MW with pulse widths nearly 400 ns at 25 Hz, while theexperimental maximum output power was just limited by the power capacity ofloads. This type of high power microwave system has widely application prospectin RF system of large scale particle accelerators, high power radartransmitters and high level electromagnetic environment generators.

Spatio-temporal Control of Light Transmission through a Multimode Fiber  with Strong Mode Coupling

  We experimentally generate and characterize the eigenstates of theWigner-Smith time-delay matrix, called principal modes, in a multimode fiberwith strong mode coupling. The unique spectral and temporal properties ofprincipal modes enable a global control of the temporal dynamics of opticalpulses transmitted through the fiber, despite random mode mixing. Our analysisreveals that the well-defined delay time of the eigenstates are formed bymulti-path interference, which can be effectively manipulated by the spatialdegrees of freedom of the input wavefront. This study is essential tocontrolling the dynamics of wave scattering, paving the way for coherentcontrol of pulse propagation through complex media.

Principal modes in multimode fibers: exploring the crossover from weak  to strong mode coupling

  We present experimental and numerical studies on principal modes in amultimode fiber with mode coupling. By applying external stress to the fiberand gradually adjusting the stress, we have realized a transition from weak tostrong mode coupling, which corresponds to the transition from singlescattering to multiple scattering in mode space. Our experiments show thatprincipal modes have distinct spatial and spectral characteristic in the weakand strong mode coupling regimes. We also investigate the bandwidth of theprincipal modes, in particular, the dependence of the bandwidth on the delaytime, and the effects of the mode-dependent loss. By analyzing the path-lengthdistributions, we discover two distinct mechanisms that are responsible for thebandwidth of principal modes in weak and strong mode coupling regimes. Takinginto account the mode-dependent loss in the fiber, our numerical results are ingood agreement with our experimental observations. Our study paves the way forexploring potential applications of principal modes in communication, imagingand spectroscopy.

Complete Polarization Control in Multimode Fibers with Polarization and  Mode Coupling

  Multimode optical fibers have seen increasing applications in communication,imaging, high-power lasers and amplifiers. However, inherent imperfections andenvironmental perturbations cause random polarization and mode mixing, makingthe output polarization states very different from the input one. This poses aserious issue for employing polarization sensitive techniques to controllight-matter interactions or nonlinear optical processes at the distal end of afiber probe. Here we demonstrate a complete control of polarization states forall output channels by only manipulating the spatial wavefront of a laser beaminto the fiber. Arbitrary polarization states for individual output channelsare generated by wavefront shaping without constraint on input polarizations.The strong coupling between spatial and polarization degrees of freedom in amultimode fiber enables full polarization control with spatial degrees offreedom alone, transforming a multimode fiber to a highly-efficientreconfigurable matrix of waveplates.

Spatio-temporal correlations in multimode fibers for pulse delivery

  Long-range speckle correlations play an essential role in wave transportthrough disordered media, but have rarely been studied in other complexsystems. Here we discover spatio-temporal intensity correlations for an opticalpulse propagating through a multimode fiber with strong random mode coupling.Positive long-range correlations arise from multiple scattering in fiber modespace and depend on the statistical distribution of arrival times. Byoptimizing the incident wavefront of a pulse, we maximize the power transmittedat a selected time, and such control is significantly enhanced by thelong-range spatio-temporal correlations. We provide an explicit relationbetween the correlations and the enhancements, which closely agrees withexperimental data. Our work shows that multimode fibers provide a fertileground for studying complex wave phenomena, and the strong spatio-temporalcorrelations can be employed for efficient power delivery at a well-definedtime.

Energy levels and far-infrared spectroscopy for two electrons in a  semiconductor nanoring

  The effects of electron-electron interaction of a two-electron nanoring onthe energy levels and far-infrared (FIR) spectroscopy have been investigatedbased on a model calculation which is performed within the exactly numericaldiagonalization. It is found that the interaction changes the energy spectradramatically, and also shows significant influence on the FIR spectroscopy. Thecrossings between the lowest spin-singlet and triplet states induced by thecoulomb interaction are clearly revealed. Our results are related to theexperiment recently carried out by A. Lorke et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 2223(2000)].

Effects of arbitrarily directed field on spin phase oscillations in  biaxial molecular magnets

  Quantum phase interference and spin-parity effects are studied in biaxialmolecular magnets in a magnetic field at an arbitrarily directed angle. Thecalculations of the ground-state tunnel splitting are performed on the basis ofthe instanton technique in the spin-coherent-state path-integralrepresentation, and complemented by exactly numerical diagonalization. Both theWentzel-Kramers-Brillouin exponent and the preexponential factor are obtainedfor the entire region of the direction of the field. Our results show that thetunnel splitting oscillates with the field for the small field angle, while forthe large field angle the oscillation is completely suppressed. This distinctangular dependence, together with the dependence of the tunnel splitting on thefield strengh, provide an independent test for spin-parity effects in biaxialmolecular magnets. The analytical results for the molecular Fe$_{8}$ magnet,are found to be in good areement with the numerical simulations, which suggeststhat even the molecular magnet with total spin S=10 is large enough to betreated as a giant spin system.

Macroscopic quantum coherence in antiferromagnetic molecular magnets

  The macroscopic quantum coherence in a biaxial antiferromagnetic molecularmagnet in the presence of magnetic field acting parallel to its hard anisotropyaxis is studied within the two-sublattice model. On the basis of instantontechnique in the spin-coherent-state path-integral representation, both therigorous Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin exponent and preexponential factor for theground-state tunnel splitting are obtained. We find that the quantumfluctuations around the classical paths can not only induce a new quantum phasepreviously reported by Chiolero and Loss (Phys. Rev. Lett. 80, 169 (1998)), butalso have great influnence on the intensity of the ground-state tunnelsplitting. Those features clearly have no analogue in the ferromagneticmolecular magnets. We suggest that they may be the universal behaviors in allantiferromagnetic molecular magnets. The analytical results are complemented byexact diagonalization calculation.

Low energy exciton states in a nanoscopic semiconducting ring

  We consider an effective mass model for an electron-hole pair in a simplifiedconfinement potential, which is applicable to both a nanoscopic self-assembledsemiconducting InAs ring and a quantum dot. The linear optical susceptibility,proportional to the absorption intensity of near-infrared transmission, iscalculated as a function of the ring radius $% R_0$. Compared with theproperties of the quantum dot corresponding to the model with a very smallradius $R_0$, our results are in qualitative agreement with the recentexperimental measurements by Pettersson {\it et al}.

Aharonov-Bohm effect of excitons in nano-rings

  The magnetic field effects on excitons in an InAs nano-ring are studiedtheoretically. By numerically diagonalizing the effective-mass Hamiltonian ofthe problem, which can be separated into terms in centre-of-mass and relativecoordinates, we calculate the low-lying exciton energy levels and oscillatorstrengths as a function of the width of the ring and the strength of theexternal magnetic field. The analytical results are obtained for a narrow-widthnano-ring in which the radial motion is the fastest one and adiabaticallydecoupled from the azimuthal motions. It is shown that in the presence ofCoulomb correlation, the so called Aharonov-Bohm effect of excitons exists in afinite (but small) width nano-ring. However, when the ring width becomes large,the non-simply-connected geometry of nano-rings is destroyed and in turn yieldsthe suppression of Aharonov-Bohm effect. The conditional probabilitydistribution calculated for the low-lying exction states allows identificationof the presence of Aharonov-Bohm effect. The linear optical susceptibility isalso calculated as a function of the magnetic field, to be confronted with thefuture measurements of optical emission experiments on InAs nano-rings.

Polaron in a non-abelian Aubry-André-Harper model with \textit{p}-wave  superfluidity

  We theoretically investigate the behavior of a mobile impurity immersed in aone-dimensional quasi-periodic Fermi system with topological $p$-wavesuperfluidity. This polaron problem is solved by using a standard variationalapproach, the so-called Chevy ansatz. The polaron states are found to bestrongly affected by the strength of the quasi-disorder and the amplitude ofthe $p$-wave pairing. We analyze the phase diagram of the polaron ground stateand find four phases: two extended phases, a weakly-localized phase and astrongly-localized phase. It is remarkable that these polaron phases aredirectly corresponding to the four distinct phases experienced by theunderlying background Fermi system. In particular, the weakly-localized polaronphase corresponds to an intriguing critical phase of the Fermi system.Therefore, the different phases of the background system can be unambiguouslyprobed by measuring the polaron properties via radio-frequency spectroscopy. Wealso investigate the high-lying excited polaron states at an infinitetemperature and address the possibility of studying many-body localization(MBL) of these states. We find that the introduction of $p$-wave pairing maydelocalize the many-body localized states and make the system easier tothermalize. Our results could be observed in current state-of-the-art cold-atomexperiments.

Soliton Solutions on Noncommutative Orbifold $T^{2N}/G$

  In this paper, we construct the common eigenstates of "translation" operators$\{U_{s}\}$ and establish the generalized $Kq$ representation on integralnoncommutative torus $T^{2N}$. We then study the finite rotation group $G$ innoncommutative space as a mapping in the $Kq$ representation and prove aBlocking Theorem. We finally obtain the complete set of projection operators onthe integral noncommutative orbifold $T^{2N}/G$ in terms of the generalized$Kq$ representation. Since projectors are soliton solutions on noncommutativespace in the limit $\alpha ^{\prime}B_{ij}\to \infty (\Theta_{ij}/\alpha^{\prime}\to 0)$, we thus obtain all soliton solutions on that orbifold$T^{2N}/G$.

Emergence of Symmetry in Complex Networks

  Many real networks have been found to have a rich degree of symmetry, whichis a very important structural property of complex network, yet has been rarelystudied so far. And where does symmetry comes from has not been explained. Toexplore the mechanism underlying symmetry of the networks, we studiedstatistics of certain local symmetric motifs, such as symmetric bicliques andgeneralized symmetric bicliques, which contribute to local symmetry ofnetworks. We found that symmetry of complex networks is a consequence ofsimilar linkage pattern, which means that nodes with similar degree tend toshare similar linkage targets. A improved version of BA model integratingsimilar linkage pattern successfully reproduces the symmetry of real networks,indicating that similar linkage pattern is the underlying ingredient thatresponsible for the emergence of the symmetry in complex networks.

Symmetry based Structure Entropy of Complex Networks

  Precisely quantifying the heterogeneity or disorder of a network system isvery important and desired in studies of behavior and function of the networksystem. Although many degree-based entropies have been proposed to measure theheterogeneity of real networks, heterogeneity implicated in the structure ofnetworks can not be precisely quantified yet. Hence, we propose a new structureentropy based on automorphism partition to precisely quantify the structuralheterogeneity of networks. Analysis of extreme cases shows that entropy basedon automorphism partition can quantify the structural heterogeneity of networksmore precisely than degree-based entropy. We also summarized symmetry andheterogeneity statistics of many real networks, finding that real networks areindeed more heterogenous in the view of automorphism partition than what havebeen depicted under the measurement of degree based entropies; and thatstructural heterogeneity is strongly negatively correlated to symmetry of realnetworks.

Direct Observation of Whispering Gallery Mode Polaritons and Their  Dispersion in a ZnO Tapered Microcavity

  We report direct observation of the strong exciton-photon coupling in ZnOtapered whispering gallery (WG) microcavity at room temperature. By scanningexcitations along the tapered arm of ZnO tetrapod using micro-photoluminescencespectrometer with different polarizations, we observed a transition from thepure WG optical modes in the weak interaction regime to the excitonic polaritonin the strong coupling regime. The experimental observations are well describedby using the plane wave model including excitonic polariton dispersionrelation. This provides a direct mapping of the polariton dispersion, and thusa comprehensive picture for coupling of different excitons with differentlypolarized WG modes.

Network Quotients: Structural Skeletons of Complex Systems

  A defining feature of many large empirical networks is their intrinsiccomplexity. However, many networks also contain a large degree of structuralrepetition. An immediate question then arises: can we characterize essentialnetwork complexity while excluding structural redundancy?  In this article we utilize inherent network symmetry to collapse allredundant information from a network, resulting in a coarse-graining which weshow to carry the essential structural information of the `parent' network. Inthe context of algebraic combinatorics, this coarse-graining is known as the\emph{quotient}. We systematically explore the theoretical properties ofnetwork quotients and summarize key statistics of a variety of `real-world'quotients with respect to those of their parent networks. In particular, wefind that quotients can be substantially smaller than their parent networks yettypically preserve various key functional properties such as complexity(heterogeneity and hubs vertices) and communication (diameter and mean geodesicdistance), suggesting that quotients constitute the essential structuralskeleton of their parent network. We summarize with a discussion of potentialuses of quotients in analysis of biological regulatory networks and ways inwhich using quotients can reduce the computational complexity of networkalgorithms.

Broadband electrical detection of spin excitations in (Ga,Mn)As using a  photovoltage technique

  We report on microwave photovoltage and simultaneous magnetotransportmeasurements in a (Ga,Mn)As film oriented normal to the magnetic field. Wedetect the ferromagnetic resonance over a broad frequency range of 2 GHz to18.5 GHz and determine the spectroscopic g-factor and separate the Gilbert fromthe inhomogeneous contribution to magnetization relaxation. Temperaturedependent measurements below the saturation magnetization indicate that thephotovoltage signal can serve as a sensitive tool to study the crystalanisotropy. We demonstrate that the combination of spin dynamics with chargetransport is a promising tool to study microstructured ferromagneticsemiconductor samples.

A Social Influence Model Based On Circuit Theory

  Understanding the behaviors of information propagation is essential for theeffective exploitation of social influence in social networks. However, fewexisting influence models are tractable and efficient for describing theinformation propagation process, especially when dealing with the difficulty ofincorporating the effects of combined influences from multiple nodes. To thisend, in this paper, we provide a social influence model that alleviates thisobstacle based on electrical circuit theory. This model vastly improves theefficiency of measuring the influence strength between any pair of nodes, andcan be used to interpret the real-world influence propagation process in acoherent way. In addition, this circuit theory model provides a naturalsolution to the social influence maximization problem. When applied torealworld data, the circuit theory model consistently outperforms thestate-of-the-art methods and can greatly alleviate the computation burden ofthe influence maximization problem.

Developing an aqueous approach for synthesizing Au and M@Au (M = Pd,  CuPt) hybrid nanostars with plasmonic properties

  Anisotropic Au nanoparticles show unique localized surface plasmon resonance(LSPR) properties, which make it attractive in optical, sensing, and biomedicalapplications. In this contribution, we report a general and facile strategytowards aqueous synthesis of Au and M@Au (M = Pd, CuPt) hybrid nanostars byreducing HAuCl4 with ethanolamine in the presence of cetyltrimethylammoniumbromide (CTAB). According to electron microscopic observation and spectralmonitoring, we found that the layered epitaxial growth mode (i.e., Frank-vander Merwe mechanism) contributes to the enlargement of the core, while, therandom attachment of Au nanoclusters onto the cores accounts for the formationof the branches. Both of them are indispensable for the formation of thenanostars. The LSPR properties of the Au nanoparticles have been wellinvestigated with morphology control via precursor amount and growthtemperature. The Au nanostars showed improved surface-enhanced Ramanspectroscopy (SERS) performance for rhodamine 6G due to their sharp edges andtips, which were therefore confirmed as good SERS substrate to detect traceamount of molecules.

Photonic crystals with topological defects

  We introduce topological defect to a square lattice of elliptical cylinders.Despite the broken translational symmetry, the long-range positional order ofthe cylinders leads to residual photonic bandgap in the density of opticalstates. However, the band-edge modes are strongly modified by the spatialvariation of ellipse orientation. The $\Gamma-X$ band-edge mode splits intofour regions of high intensity and the output flux becomes asymmetric due tothe formation of crystalline domains with different orientation. The $\Gamma-M$band-edge mode has the energy flux circulates around the topological defectcenter, creating an optical vortex. By removing the elliptical cylinders at thecenter, we create localized defect states which are dominated by eitherclockwise or counter-clockwise circulating waves. The flow direction can beswitched by changing the ellipse orientation. The deterministic aperiodicvariation of the unit cell orientation adds another dimension to the control oflight in photonic crystals, enabling creation of diversified field pattern andenergy flow landscape.

Topological semimetal state and field-induced Fermi surface  reconstruction in antiferromagnetic monopnictide NdSb

  We report the experimental realization of Dirac semimetal state in NdSb, amaterial with antiferromagnetic ground state. The occurrence of topologicalsemimetal state has been well supported by our band structure calculations andthe experimental observation of chiral anomaly induced negativemagnetoresistance. A field-induced Fermi surface reconstruction is observed, inresponse to the change of spin polarization. The observation of topologicalsemimetal state in a magnetic material provides an opportunity to investigatethe magneto-topological phenomena.

Dynamic Word Embeddings for Evolving Semantic Discovery

  Word evolution refers to the changing meanings and associations of wordsthroughout time, as a byproduct of human language evolution. By studying wordevolution, we can infer social trends and language constructs over differentperiods of human history. However, traditional techniques such as wordrepresentation learning do not adequately capture the evolving languagestructure and vocabulary. In this paper, we develop a dynamic statistical modelto learn time-aware word vector representation. We propose a model thatsimultaneously learns time-aware embeddings and solves the resulting "alignmentproblem". This model is trained on a crawled NYTimes dataset. Additionally, wedevelop multiple intuitive evaluation strategies of temporal word embeddings.Our qualitative and quantitative tests indicate that our method not onlyreliably captures this evolution over time, but also consistently outperformsstate-of-the-art temporal embedding approaches on both semantic accuracy andalignment quality.

Super- and Anti-Principal Modes in Multi-Mode Waveguides

  We introduce a new type of states for light in multimode waveguides featuringstrongly enhanced or reduced spectral correlations. Based on the experimentallymeasured multi-spectral transmission matrix of a multimode fiber, we generate aset of states that outperform the established "principal modes" in terms of thespectral stability of their output spatial field profiles. Inverting thisconcept also allows us to create states with a minimal spectral correlationwidth, whose output profiles are considerably more sensitive to a frequencychange than typical input wavefronts. The resulting "super-" and"anti-principal" modes are made orthogonal to each other even in the presenceof mode-dependent loss. By decomposing them in the principal mode basis, weshow that the super-principal modes are formed via interference of principalmodes with closeby delay times, whereas the anti-principal modes are asuperposition of principal modes with the most different delay times availablein the fiber. Such novel states are expected to have broad applications infiber communication, imaging, and spectroscopy.

Isomer-Dependent Fragmentation Dynamics of Inner-Shell Photoionized  Difluoroiodobenzene

  The fragmentation dynamics of 2,6- and 3,5-difluoroiodobenzene after iodine4$d$ inner-shell photoionization with soft X-rays are studied using coincidentelectron and ion momentum imaging. By analyzing the momentum correlationbetween iodine and fluorine cations in three-fold ion coincidence events, wecan distinguish the two isomers experimentally. Classical Coulomb explosionsimulations are in overall agreement with the experimentally determinedfragment ion kinetic energies and momentum correlations and point towarddifferent fragmentation mechanisms and time scales. While most three-bodyfragmentation channels show clear evidence for sequential fragmentation on atime scale larger than the rotational period of the fragments, the breakup intoiodine and fluorine cations and a third charged co-fragment appears to occurwithin a few hundred femtoseconds -- a time scale larger than the rotationalperiod of the fragments, the breakup in other channels appears to occur withina few hundred femtoseconds.

Risk-Averse Classification

  We develop a new approach to solving classification problems, which is baseson the theory of coherent measures of risk and risk sharing ideas. The proposedapproach aims at designing a risk-averse classifier. The new approach allowsfor associating distinct risk functional to each classes. The risk may bemeasured by different (non-linear in probability) measures,  We analyze the structure of the new classifier design problem and establishits theoretical relation to known risk-neutral design problems. In particular,we show that the risk-sharing classification problem is equivalent to animplicitly defined optimization problem with unequal, implicitly defined butunknown, weights for each data point. We implement our methodology in a binaryclassification scenario on several different data sets and carry out numericalcomparison with classifiers which are obtained using the Huber loss functionand other loss functions known in the literature. We formulate specificrisk-averse support vector machines in order to demonstrate the viability ofour method.

A Single-species Atomic Co-magnetometer Based on 87Rb atoms

  The co-magnetometer has been one of the most sensitive device to test newphysics related to spin-dependent interactions. But the co-magnetometers basedon overlapping ensembles of different spin species usually suffer fromsystematic errors resulting from magnetic field gradients. Here we propose aco-magnetometer based on the Zeeman transitions of the two hyperfine levels inthe ground state 87Rb atoms. It shows nearly negligible sensitivity to thevariations of laser power and frequency, magnetic field, and magneticgradients. In the preliminary experiment, it holds the potential to reach10^(-17) eV level for measuring the hypothetical spin-dependent gravitationalenergy of the proton. Moreover, its performance can be further improved throughoptimization of the 87Rb cell and experiment setup.

Bilinear Representation for Language-based Image Editing Using  Conditional Generative Adversarial Networks

  The task of Language-Based Image Editing (LBIE) aims at generating a targetimage by editing the source image based on the given language description. Themain challenge of LBIE is to disentangle the semantics in image and text andthen combine them to generate realistic images. Therefore, the editingperformance is heavily dependent on the learned representation. In this work,conditional generative adversarial network (cGAN) is utilized for LBIE. We findthat existing conditioning methods in cGAN lack of representation power as theycannot learn the second-order correlation between two conditioning vectors. Tosolve this problem, we propose an improved conditional layer named BilinearResidual Layer (BRL) to learning more powerful representations for LBIE task.Qualitative and quantitative comparisons demonstrate that our method cangenerate images with higher quality when compared to previous LBIE techniques.

Floquet engineering to exotic topological phases in cold-atom systems

  Topological phases with large topological numbers have been widely studied asan typical class of exotic states of matter with potentially importantapplications. Although several models have been shown to support states withlarge topological numbers, they are difficult to realize in solid systems dueto the complexity of various intervening factors. Inspired by the realizationof synthetic spin-orbit coupling in cold-atom system [Z. Wu, {\it et al.},Science \textbf{354}, 83 (2016)], we propose a periodic quenching scheme torealize large-topological-number phases in optical lattices. Via introducingthe periodic quenching to the Raman lattice, it is found that a large number oftopological edge states can be induced in a controllable manner from the statictopologically trivial system. Our result provides an experimentally accessiblemethod to artificially synthesize and manipulate exotic topological states withlarge topological numbers.

Detecting Blackholes and Volcanoes in Directed Networks

  In this paper, we formulate a novel problem for finding blackhole and volcanopatterns in a large directed graph. Specifically, a blackhole pattern is agroup which is made of a set of nodes in a way such that there are only inlinksto this group from the rest nodes in the graph. In contrast, a volcano patternis a group which only has outlinks to the rest nodes in the graph. Bothpatterns can be observed in real world. For instance, in a trading network, ablackhole pattern may represent a group of traders who are manipulating themarket. In the paper, we first prove that the blackhole mining problem is adual problem of finding volcanoes. Therefore, we focus on finding the blackholepatterns. Along this line, we design two pruning schemes to guide the blackholefinding process. In the first pruning scheme, we strategically prune the searchspace based on a set of pattern-size-independent pruning rules and develop aniBlackhole algorithm. The second pruning scheme follows a divide-and-conquerstrategy to further exploit the pruning results from the first pruning scheme.Indeed, a target directed graphs can be divided into several disconnectedsubgraphs by the first pruning scheme, and thus the blackhole finding can beconducted in each disconnected subgraph rather than in a large graph. Based onthese two pruning schemes, we also develop an iBlackhole-DC algorithm. Finally,experimental results on real-world data show that the iBlackhole-DC algorithmcan be several orders of magnitude faster than the iBlackhole algorithm, whichhas a huge computational advantage over a brute-force method.

A Linear Circuit Model For Social Influence Analysis

  Understanding the behaviors of information propagation is essential for theeffective exploitation of social influence in social networks. However, fewexisting influence models are both tractable and efficient for describing theinformation propagation process and quantitatively measuring social influence.To this end, in this paper, we develop a linear social influence model, namedCircuit due to its close relation to the circuit network. Based on thepredefined four axioms of social influence, we first demonstrate that our modelcan efficiently measure the influence strength between any pair of nodes. Alongthis line, an upper bound of the node(s)' influence is identified for potentialuse, e.g., reducing the search space. Furthermore, we provide the physicalimplication of the Circuit model and also a deep analysis of its relationshipswith the existing methods, such as PageRank. Then, we propose that the Circuitmodel provides a natural solution to the problems of computing each singlenode's authority and finding a set of nodes for social influence maximization.At last, the effectiveness of the proposed model is evaluated on the real-worlddata. The extensive experimental results demonstrate that Circuit modelconsistently outperforms the state-of-the-art methods and can greatly alleviatethe computation burden of the influence maximization problem.

Y Chromosomes of 40% Chinese Are Descendants of Three Neolithic  Super-grandfathers

  Demographic change of human populations is one of the central questions fordelving into the past of human beings. To identify major population expansionsrelated to male lineages, we sequenced 78 East Asian Y chromosomes at 3.9 Mbpof the non-recombining region (NRY), discovered >4,000 new SNPs, and identifiedmany new clades. The relative divergence dates can be estimated much moreprecisely using molecular clock. We found that all the Paleolithic divergenceswere binary; however, three strong star-like Neolithic expansions at ~6 kya(thousand years ago) (assuming a constant substitution rate of 1e-9/bp/year)indicates that ~40% of modern Chinese are patrilineal descendants of only threesuper-grandfathers at that time. This observation suggests that the mainpatrilineal expansion in China occurred in the Neolithic Era and might berelated to the development of agriculture.

Heterogeneous Metric Learning with Content-based Regularization for  Software Artifact Retrieval

  The problem of software artifact retrieval has the goal to effectively locatesoftware artifacts, such as a piece of source code, in a large code repository.This problem has been traditionally addressed through the textual query. Inother words, information retrieval techniques will be exploited based on thetextual similarity between queries and textual representation of softwareartifacts, which is generated by collecting words from comments, identifiers,and descriptions of programs. However, in addition to these semanticinformation, there are rich information embedded in source codes themselves.These source codes, if analyzed properly, can be a rich source for enhancingthe efforts of software artifact retrieval. To this end, in this paper, wedevelop a feature extraction method on source codes. Specifically, this methodcan capture both the inherent information in the source codes and the semanticinformation hidden in the comments, descriptions, and identifiers of the sourcecodes. Moreover, we design a heterogeneous metric learning approach, whichallows to integrate code features and text features into the same latentsemantic space. This, in turn, can help to measure the artifact similarity byexploiting the joint power of both code and text features. Finally, extensiveexperiments on real-world data show that the proposed method can help toimprove the performances of software artifact retrieval with a significantmargin.

Investigation of intergranular bright points from the New Vacuum Solar  Telescope

  Six high-resolution TiO-band image sequences from the New Vacuum SolarTelescope (NVST) are used to investigate the properties of intergranular brightpoints (igBPs). We detect the igBPs using a Laplacian and morphologicaldilation algorithm (LMD) and track them using a three-dimensional segmentationalgorithm automatically, and then investigate the morphologic, photometric anddynamic properties of igBPs, in terms of equivalent diameter, the intensitycontrast, lifetime, horizontal velocity, diffusion index, motion range andmotion type. The statistical results confirm the previous studies based onG-band or TiO-band igBPs from the other telescopes. It illustrates that the TiOdata from the NVST have a stable and reliable quality, which are suitable forstudying the igBPs. In addition, our method is feasible to detect and track theigBPs in the TiO data from the NVST. With the aid of the vector magnetogramsobtained from the Solar Dynamics Observatory /Helioseismic and Magnetic Imager,the properties of igBPs are found to be influenced by their embedded magneticenvironments strongly. The area coverage, the size and the intensity contrastvalues of igBPs are generally larger in the regions with higher magnetic flux.However, the dynamics of igBPs, including the horizontal velocity, thediffusion index, the ratio of motion range and the index of motion type aregenerally larger in the regions with lower magnetic flux. It suggests that theabsence of strong magnetic fields in the medium makes it possible for the igBPsto look smaller and weaker, diffuse faster, move faster and further in astraighter path.

Structural Analysis of User Choices for Mobile App Recommendation

  Advances in smartphone technology have promoted the rapid development ofmobile apps. However, the availability of a huge number of mobile apps inapplication stores has imposed the challenge of finding the right apps to meetthe user needs. Indeed, there is a critical demand for personalized apprecommendations. Along this line, there are opportunities and challenges posedby two unique characteristics of mobile apps. First, app markets have organizedapps in a hierarchical taxonomy. Second, apps with similar functionalities arecompeting with each other. While there are a variety of approaches for mobileapp recommendations, these approaches do not have a focus on dealing with theseopportunities and challenges. To this end, in this paper, we provide asystematic study for addressing these challenges. Specifically, we develop aStructural User Choice Model (SUCM) to learn fine-grained user preferences byexploiting the hierarchical taxonomy of apps as well as the competitiverelationships among apps. Moreover, we design an efficient learning algorithmto estimate the parameters for the SUCM model. Finally, we perform extensiveexperiments on a large app adoption data set collected from Google Play. Theresults show that SUCM consistently outperforms state-of-the-art top-Nrecommendation methods by a significant margin.

Impulsively Generated Wave Trains in Coronal Structures: I. Effects of  Transverse Structuring on Sausage Waves in Pressureless Tubes

  The behavior of the axial group speeds of trapped sausage modes plays animportant role in determining impulsively generated wave trains, which haveoften been invoked to account for quasi-periodic signals with quasi-periods oforder seconds in a considerable number of coronal structures. We conduct acomprehensive eigenmode analysis, both analytically and numerically, on thedispersive properties of sausage modes in pressureless tubes with threefamilies of continuous radial density profiles. We find a rich variety of thedependence on the axial wavenumber $k$ of the axial group speed $v_{\rm gr}$.Depending on the density contrast and profile steepness as well as on thedetailed profile description, the $v_{\rm gr}-k$ curves either possess or donot possess cutoff wavenumbers, and they can behave in either a monotonical ornon-monotonical manner. With time-dependent simulations, we further show thatthis rich variety of the group speed characteristics heavily influences thetemporal evolution and Morlet spectra of impulsively generated wave trains. Inparticular, the Morlet spectra can look substantially different from "crazytadpoles" found for the much-studied discontinuous density profiles. Weconclude that it is necessary to re-examine available high-cadence data to lookfor the rich set of temporal and spectral features, which can be employed todiscriminate between the unknown forms of the density distributions transverseto coronal structures.

REMIX: Automated Exploration for Interactive Outlier Detection

  Outlier detection is the identification of points in a dataset that do notconform to the norm. Outlier detection is highly sensitive to the choice of thedetection algorithm and the feature subspace used by the algorithm. Extractingdomain-relevant insights from outliers needs systematic exploration of thesechoices since diverse outlier sets could lead to complementary insights. Thischallenge is especially acute in an interactive setting, where the choices mustbe explored in a time-constrained manner. In this work, we present REMIX, thefirst system to address the problem of outlier detection in an interactivesetting. REMIX uses a novel mixed integer programming (MIP) formulation forautomatically selecting and executing a diverse set of outlier detectors withina time limit. This formulation incorporates multiple aspects such as (i) anupper limit on the total execution time of detectors (ii) diversity in thespace of algorithms and features, and (iii) meta-learning for evaluating thecost and utility of detectors. REMIX provides two distinct ways for the analystto consume its results: (i) a partitioning of the detectors explored by REMIXinto perspectives through low-rank non-negative matrix factorization; eachperspective can be easily visualized as an intuitive heatmap of experimentsversus outliers, and (ii) an ensembled set of outliers which combines outlierscores from all detectors. We demonstrate the benefits of REMIX throughextensive empirical validation on real-world data.

A Location-Sentiment-Aware Recommender System for Both Home-Town and  Out-of-Town Users

  Spatial item recommendation has become an important means to help peoplediscover interesting locations, especially when people pay a visit tounfamiliar regions. Some current researches are focusing on modellingindividual and collective geographical preferences for spatial itemrecommendation based on users' check-in records, but they fail to explore thephenomenon of user interest drift across geographical regions, i.e., userswould show different interests when they travel to different regions. Besides,they ignore the influence of public comments for subsequent users' check-inbehaviors. Specifically, it is intuitive that users would refuse to check in toa spatial item whose historical reviews seem negative overall, even though itmight fit their interests. Therefore, it is necessary to recommend the rightitem to the right user at the right location. In this paper, we propose alatent probabilistic generative model called LSARS to mimic the decision-makingprocess of users' check-in activities both in home-town and out-of-townscenarios by adapting to user interest drift and crowd sentiments, which canlearn location-aware and sentiment-aware individual interests from the contentsof spatial items and user reviews. Due to the sparsity of user activities inout-of-town regions, LSARS is further designed to incorporate the publicpreferences learned from local users' check-in behaviors. Finally, we deployLSARS into two practical application scenes: spatial item recommendation andtarget user discovery. Extensive experiments on two large-scale location-basedsocial networks (LBSNs) datasets show that LSARS achieves better performancethan existing state-of-the-art methods.

The process of 3D-printed skull models for the anatomy education

  Objective The 3D printed medical models can come from virtual digitalresources, like CT scanning. Nevertheless, the accuracy of CT scanningtechnology is limited, which is 1mm. In this situation, the collected data isnot exactly the same as the real structure and there might be some errorscausing the print to fail. This study presents a common and practical way toprocess the skull data to make the structures correctly. And then we make askull model through 3D printing technology, which is useful for medicalstudents to understand the complex structure of skull. Materials and MethodsThe skull data is collected by the CT scan. To get a corrected medical model,the computer-assisted image processing goes with the combination of five 3Dmanipulation tools: Mimics, 3ds Max, Geomagic, Mudbox and Meshmixer, toreconstruct the digital model and repair it. Subsequently, we utilize alow-cost desktop 3D printer, Ultimaker2, with polylactide filament (PLA)material to print the model and paint it based on the atlas. Result After therestoration and repairing, we eliminate the errors and repair the model byadding the missing parts of the uploaded data within 6 hours. Then we print itand compare the model with the cadaveric skull from frontal, left, right andanterior views respectively. The printed model can show the same structures andalso the details of the skull clearly and is a good alternative of thecadaveric skull.

Recruitment Market Trend Analysis with Sequential Latent Variable Models

  Recruitment market analysis provides valuable understanding ofindustry-specific economic growth and plays an important role for bothemployers and job seekers. With the rapid development of online recruitmentservices, massive recruitment data have been accumulated and enable a newparadigm for recruitment market analysis. However, traditional methods forrecruitment market analysis largely rely on the knowledge of domain experts andclassic statistical models, which are usually too general to model large-scaledynamic recruitment data, and have difficulties to capture the fine-grainedmarket trends. To this end, in this paper, we propose a new research paradigmfor recruitment market analysis by leveraging unsupervised learning techniquesfor automatically discovering recruitment market trends based on large-scalerecruitment data. Specifically, we develop a novel sequential latent variablemodel, named MTLVM, which is designed for capturing the sequential dependenciesof corporate recruitment states and is able to automatically learn the latentrecruitment topics within a Bayesian generative framework. In particular, tocapture the variability of recruitment topics over time, we design hierarchicaldirichlet processes for MTLVM. These processes allow to dynamically generatethe evolving recruitment topics. Finally, we implement a prototype system toempirically evaluate our approach based on real-world recruitment data inChina. Indeed, by visualizing the results from MTLVM, we can successfullyreveal many interesting findings, such as the popularity of LBS related jobsreached the peak in the 2nd half of 2014, and decreased in 2015.

Collaborative Company Profiling: Insights from an Employee's Perspective

  Company profiling is an analytical process to build an indepth understandingof company's fundamental characteristics. It serves as an effective way to gainvital information of the target company and acquire business intelligence.Traditional approaches for company profiling rely heavily on the availabilityof rich finance information about the company, such as finance reports and SECfilings, which may not be readily available for many private companies.However, the rapid prevalence of online employment services enables a newparadigm - to obtain the variety of company's information from their employees'online ratings and comments. This, in turn, raises the challenge to developcompany profiles from an employee's perspective. To this end, in this paper, wepropose a method named Company Profiling based Collaborative Topic Regression(CPCTR), for learning the latent structural patterns of companies. Byformulating a joint optimization framework, CPCTR has the ability incollaboratively modeling both textual (e.g., reviews) and numerical information(e.g., salaries and ratings). Indeed, with the identified patterns, includingthe positive/negative opinions and the latent variable that influences salary,we can effectively carry out opinion analysis and salary prediction. Extensiveexperiments were conducted on a real-world data set to validate theeffectiveness of CPCTR. The results show that our method provides acomprehensive understanding of company characteristics and delivers a moreeffective prediction of salaries than other baselines.

Measuring the Popularity of Job Skills in Recruitment Market: A  Multi-Criteria Approach

  To cope with the accelerating pace of technological changes, talents areurged to add and refresh their skills for staying in active and gainfulemployment. This raises a natural question: what are the right skills to learn?Indeed, it is a nontrivial task to measure the popularity of job skills due tothe diversified criteria of jobs and the complicated connections within jobskills. To that end, in this paper, we propose a data driven approach formodeling the popularity of job skills based on the analysis of large-scalerecruitment data. Specifically, we first build a job skill network by exploringa large corpus of job postings. Then, we develop a novel Skill Popularity basedTopic Model (SPTM) for modeling the generation of the skill network. Inparticular, SPTM can integrate different criteria of jobs (e.g., salary levels,company size) as well as the latent connections within skills, thus we caneffectively rank the job skills based on their multi-faceted popularity.Extensive experiments on real-world recruitment data validate the effectivenessof SPTM for measuring the popularity of job skills, and also reveal someinteresting rules, such as the popular job skills which lead to high-paidemployment.

Person-Job Fit: Adapting the Right Talent for the Right Job with Joint  Representation Learning

  Person-Job Fit is the process of matching the right talent for the right jobby identifying talent competencies that are required for the job. While manyqualitative efforts have been made in related fields, it still lacks ofquantitative ways of measuring talent competencies as well as the job's talentrequirements. To this end, in this paper, we propose a novel end-to-enddata-driven model based on Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), namelyPerson-Job Fit Neural Network (PJFNN), for matching a talent qualification tothe requirements of a job. To be specific, PJFNN is a bipartite neural networkwhich can effectively learn the joint representation of Person-Job fitness fromhistorical job applications. In particular, due to the design of a hierarchicalrepresentation structure, PJFNN can not only estimate whether a candidate fitsa job, but also identify which specific requirement items in the job postingare satisfied by the candidate by measuring the distances between correspondinglatent representations. Finally, the extensive experiments on a large-scalereal-world dataset clearly validate the performance of PJFNN in terms ofPerson-Job Fit prediction. Also, we provide effective data visualization toshow some job and talent benchmark insights obtained by PJFNN.

FineFool: Fine Object Contour Attack via Attention

  Machine learning models have been shown vulnerable to adversarial attackslaunched by adversarial examples which are carefully crafted by attacker todefeat classifiers. Deep learning models cannot escape the attack either. Mostof adversarial attack methods are focused on success rate or perturbationssize, while we are more interested in the relationship between adversarialperturbation and the image itself. In this paper, we put forward a noveladversarial attack based on contour, named FineFool. Finefool not only hasbetter attack performance compared with other state-of-art white-box attacks inaspect of higher attack success rate and smaller perturbation, but also capableof visualization the optimal adversarial perturbation via attention on objectcontour. To the best of our knowledge, Finefool is for the first time combinesthe critical feature of the original clean image with the optimal perturbationsin a visible manner. Inspired by the correlations between adversarialperturbations and object contour, slighter perturbations is produced viafocusing on object contour features, which is more imperceptible and difficultto be defended, especially network add-on defense methods with the trade-offbetween perturbations filtering and contour feature loss. Compared withexisting state-of-art attacks, extensive experiments are conducted to show thatFinefool is capable of efficient attack against defensive deep models.

Enhancing Person-Job Fit for Talent Recruitment: An Ability-aware Neural  Network Approach

  The wide spread use of online recruitment services has led to informationexplosion in the job market. As a result, the recruiters have to seek theintelligent ways for Person Job Fit, which is the bridge for adapting the rightjob seekers to the right positions. Existing studies on Person Job Fit have afocus on measuring the matching degree between the talent qualification and thejob requirements mainly based on the manual inspection of human resourceexperts despite of the subjective, incomplete, and inefficient nature of thehuman judgement. To this end, in this paper, we propose a novel end to endAbility aware Person Job Fit Neural Network model, which has a goal of reducingthe dependence on manual labour and can provide better interpretation about thefitting results. The key idea is to exploit the rich information available atabundant historical job application data. Specifically, we propose a word levelsemantic representation for both job requirements and job seekers' experiencesbased on Recurrent Neural Network. Along this line, four hierarchical abilityaware attention strategies are designed to measure the different importance ofjob requirements for semantic representation, as well as measuring thedifferent contribution of each job experience to a specific abilityrequirement. Finally, extensive experiments on a large scale real world dataset clearly validate the effectiveness and interpretability of the APJFNNframework compared with several baselines.

