Spectrum Sharing as Network Congestion Games

  This paper has been withdrawn by the first author due to incompletebibliography and incorporation of multiple formats in the same file.

To Stay Or To Switch: Multiuser Dynamic Channel Access

  In this paper we study opportunistic spectrum access (OSA) policies in amultiuser multichannel random access cognitive radio network, where usersperform channel probing and switching in order to obtain better channelcondition or higher instantaneous transmission quality. However, unlikely manyprior works in this area, including those on channel probing and switchingpolicies for a single user to exploit spectral diversity, and on probing andaccess policies for multiple users over a single channel to exploit temporaland multiuser diversity, in this study we consider the collective switching ofmultiple users over multiple channels. In addition, we consider finitearrivals, i.e., users are not assumed to always have data to send and demandfor channel follow a certain arrival process. Under such a scenario, the users'ability to opportunistically exploit temporal diversity (the temporal variationin channel quality over a single channel) and spectral diversity (qualityvariation across multiple channels at a given time) is greatly affected by thelevel of congestion in the system. We investigate the optimal decision processin this case, and evaluate the extent to which congestion affects potentialgains from opportunistic dynamic channel switching.

Revisiting Optimal Power Control: its Dual Effect on SNR and Contention

  In this paper we study a transmission power tune problem with denselydeployed 802.11 Wireless Local Area Networks (WLANs). While previous papersemphasize on tuning transmission power with either PHY or MAC layer separately,optimally setting each Access Point's (AP's) transmission power of a denselydeployed 802.11 network considering its dual effects on both layers remains anopen problem. In this work, we design a measure by evaluating impacts oftransmission power on network performance on both PHY and MAC layers. We showthat such an optimization problem is intractable and then we investigate anddevelop an analytical framework to allow simple yet efficient solutions.Through simulations and numerical results, we observe clear benefits of thedual-effect model compared to solutions optimizing solely on a single layer;therefore, we conclude that tuning transmission power from a dual layer(PHY-MAC) point of view is essential and necessary for dense WLANs. We furtherform a game theoretical framework and investigate above power-tune problem in astrategic network. We show that with decentralized and strategic users, theNash Equilibrium (N.E.) of the corresponding game is in-efficient andthereafter we propose a punishment based mechanism to enforce users to adoptthe social optimal strategy profile under both perfect and imperfect sensingenvironments.

Optimal Relay Selection with Non-negligible Probing Time

  In this paper an optimal relay selection algorithm with non-negligibleprobing time is proposed and analyzed for cooperative wireless networks. Relayselection has been introduced to solve the degraded bandwidth efficiencyproblem in cooperative communication. Yet complete information of relaychannels often remain unavailable for complex networks which renders theoptimal selection strategies impossible for transmission source without probingthe relay channels. Particularly when the number of relay candidate is large,even though probing all relay channels guarantees the finding of the bestrelays at any time instant, the degradation of bandwidth efficiency due tonon-negligible probing times, which was often neglected in past literature, isalso significant. In this work, a stopping rule based relay selection strategyis determined for the source node to decide when to stop the probing processand choose one of the probed relays to cooperate with under wireless channels'stochastic uncertainties. This relay selection strategy is further shown tohave a simple threshold structure. At the meantime, full diversity order andhigh bandwidth efficiency can be achieved simultaneously. Both analytical andsimulation results are provided to verify the claims.

Distributed Learning of Average Belief Over Networks Using Sequential  Observations

  This paper addresses the problem of distributed learning of average beliefwith sequential observations, in which a network of $n>1$ agents aim to reach aconsensus on the average value of their beliefs, by exchanging information onlywith their neighbors. Each agent has sequentially arriving samples of itsbelief in an online manner. The neighbor relationships among the $n$ agents aredescribed by a graph which is possibly time-varying, whose vertices correspondto agents and whose edges depict neighbor relationships. Two distributed onlinealgorithms are introduced for undirected and directed graphs, which are bothshown to converge to the average belief almost surely. Moreover, the sequencesgenerated by both algorithms are shown to reach consensus with an $O(1/t)$ ratewith high probability, where $t$ is the number of iterations. For undirectedgraphs, the corresponding algorithm is modified for the case with quantizedcommunication and limited precision of the division operation. It is shown thatthe modified algorithm causes all $n$ agents to either reach a quantizedconsensus or enter a small neighborhood around the average of their beliefs.Numerical simulations are then provided to corroborate the theoretical results.

DorFin: WiFi Fingerprint-based Localization Revisited

  Although WiFi fingerprint-based indoor localization is attractive, itsaccuracy remains a primary challenge especially in mobile environments.Existing approaches either appeal to physical layer information or rely onextra wireless signals for high accuracy. In this paper, we revisit the RSSfingerprint-based localization scheme and reveal crucial observations that actas the root causes of localization errors, yet are surprisingly overlooked oreven unseen in previous works. Specifically, we recognize APs' diversediscrimination for fingerprinting a specific location, observe the RSSinconsistency caused by signal fluctuations and human body blockages, anduncover the RSS outdated problem on commodity smartphones. Inspired by theseinsights, we devise a discrimination factor to quantify different APs'discrimination, incorporate robust regression to tolerate outlier measurements,and reassemble different fingerprints to cope with outdated RSSs. Combiningthese techniques in a unified solution, we propose DorFin, a novel scheme offingerprint generation, representation, and matching, which yields remarkableaccuracy without incurring extra cost. Extensive experiments demonstrate thatDorFin achieves mean error of 2 meters and more importantly, bounds the 95thpercentile error under 5.5 meters; these are about 56% and 69% lower,respectively, compared with the state-of-the-art schemes such as Horus andRADAR.

On Throughput Scaling of Wireless Networks: Effect of Node Density and  Propagation Model

  This paper derives a lower bound to the per-node throughput achievable by awireless network when n source-destination pairs are randomly distributedthroughout a disk of radius $n^\gamma$, $ \gamma \geq 0$, propagation ismodeled by attenuation of the form $1/(1+d)^\alpha$, $\alpha >2$, andsuccessful transmission occurs at a fixed rate W when received signal to noiseand interference ratio is greater than some threshold $\beta$, and at rate 0otherwise. The lower bound has the form $n^{1-\gamma}$ when $\gamma < 1/2$, and$(n \ln n)^{-1/2}$ when $\gamma \geq 1/2$. The methods are similar to, butsomewhat simpler than, those in the seminal paper by Gupta and Kumar.

Optimality of Myopic Sensing in Multi-Channel Opportunistic Access

  We consider opportunistic communications over multiple channels where thestate ("good" or "bad") of each channel evolves as independent and identicallydistributed Markov processes. A user, with limited sensing and accesscapability, chooses one channel to sense and subsequently access (based on thesensed channel state) in each time slot. A reward is obtained when the usersenses and accesses a "good" channel. The objective is to design the optimalchannel selection policy that maximizes the expected reward accrued over time.This problem can be generally cast as a Partially Observable Markov DecisionProcess (POMDP) or a restless multi-armed bandit process, to which optimalsolutions are often intractable. We show in this paper that the myopic policy,with a simple and robust structure, achieves optimality under certainconditions. This result finds applications in opportunistic communications infading environment, cognitive radio networks for spectrum overlay, andresource-constrained jamming and anti-jamming.

Channel Estimation for Opportunistic Spectrum Access: Uniform and Random  Sensing

  The knowledge of channel statistics can be very helpful in making soundopportunistic spectrum access decisions. It is therefore desirable to be ableto efficiently and accurately estimate channel statistics. In this paper westudy the problem of optimally placing sensing times over a time window so asto get the best estimate on the parameters of an on-off renewal channel. We areparticularly interested in a sparse sensing regime with a small number ofsamples relative to the time window size. Using Fisher information as ameasure, we analytically derive the best and worst sensing sequences under asparsity condition. We also present a way to derive the best/worst sequenceswithout this condition using a dynamic programming approach. In both cases theworst turns out to be the uniform sensing sequence, where sensing times areevenly spaced within the window. With these results we argue that without apriori knowledge, a robust sensing strategy should be a randomized strategy. Wethen compare different random schemes using a family of distributions generatedby the circular $\beta$ ensemble, and propose an adaptive sensing scheme toeffectively track time-varying channel parameters. We further discuss theapplicability of compressive sensing for this problem.

Online Algorithms for the Multi-Armed Bandit Problem with Markovian  Rewards

  We consider the classical multi-armed bandit problem with Markovian rewards.When played an arm changes its state in a Markovian fashion while it remainsfrozen when not played. The player receives a state-dependent reward each timeit plays an arm. The number of states and the state transition probabilities ofan arm are unknown to the player. The player's objective is to maximize itslong-term total reward by learning the best arm over time. We show that undercertain conditions on the state transition probabilities of the arms, a samplemean based index policy achieves logarithmic regret uniformly over the totalnumber of trials. The result shows that sample mean based index policies can beapplied to learning problems under the rested Markovian bandit model withoutloss of optimality in the order. Moreover, comparision between Anantharam'sindex policy and UCB shows that by choosing a small exploration parameter UCBcan have a smaller regret than Anantharam's index policy.

Online Learning of Rested and Restless Bandits

  In this paper we study the online learning problem involving rested andrestless multiarmed bandits with multiple plays. The system consists of asingle player/user and a set of K finite-state discrete-time Markov chains(arms) with unknown state spaces and statistics. At each time step the playercan play M arms. The objective of the user is to decide for each step which Mof the K arms to play over a sequence of trials so as to maximize its long termreward. The restless multiarmed bandit is particularly relevant to theapplication of opportunistic spectrum access (OSA), where a (secondary) userhas access to a set of K channels, each of time-varying condition as a resultof random fading and/or certain primary users' activities.

Optimal Adaptive Learning in Uncontrolled Restless Bandit Problems

  In this paper we consider the problem of learning the optimal policy foruncontrolled restless bandit problems. In an uncontrolled restless banditproblem, there is a finite set of arms, each of which when pulled yields apositive reward. There is a player who sequentially selects one of the arms ateach time step. The goal of the player is to maximize its undiscounted rewardover a time horizon T. The reward process of each arm is a finite state Markovchain, whose transition probabilities are unknown by the player. Statetransitions of each arm is independent of the selection of the player. Wepropose a learning algorithm with logarithmic regret uniformly over time withrespect to the optimal finite horizon policy. Our results extend the optimaladaptive learning of MDPs to POMDPs.

Performance and Convergence of Multi-user Online Learning

  We study the problem of allocating multiple users to a set of wirelesschannels in a decentralized manner when the channel quali- ties aretime-varying and unknown to the users, and accessing the same channel bymultiple users leads to reduced quality due to interference. In such a settingthe users not only need to learn the inherent channel quality and at the sametime the best allocations of users to channels so as to maximize the socialwelfare. Assuming that the users adopt a certain online learning algorithm, weinvestigate under what conditions the socially optimal allocation isachievable. In particular we examine the effect of different levels ofknowledge the users may have and the amount of communications and cooperation.The general conclusion is that when the cooperation of users decreases and theuncertainty about channel payoffs increases it becomes harder to achieve thesocially opti- mal allocation.

Online Learning for Combinatorial Network Optimization with Restless  Markovian Rewards

  Combinatorial network optimization algorithms that compute optimal structurestaking into account edge weights form the foundation for many networkprotocols. Examples include shortest path routing, minimal spanning treecomputation, maximum weighted matching on bipartite graphs, etc. We presentCLRMR, the first online learning algorithm that efficiently solves thestochastic version of these problems where the underlying edge weights vary asindependent Markov chains with unknown dynamics.  The performance of an online learning algorithm is characterized in terms ofregret, defined as the cumulative difference in rewards between asuitably-defined genie, and that obtained by the given algorithm. We provethat, compared to a genie that knows the Markov transition matrices and usesthe single-best structure at all times, CLRMR yields regret that is polynomialin the number of edges and nearly-logarithmic in time.

Throughput Optimal Switching in Multi-channel WLANs

  We observe that in a multi-channel wireless system, an opportunisticchannel/spectrum access scheme that solely focuses on channel quality sensingmeasured by received SNR may induce users to use channels that, while providingbetter signals, are more congested. Ultimately the notion of channel qualityshould include both the signal quality and the level of congestion, and a goodmulti-channel access scheme should take both into account in deciding whichchannel to use and when. Motivated by this, we focus on the congestion aspectand examine what type of dynamic channel switching schemes may result in thebest system throughput performance. Specifically we derive the stability regionof a multi-user multi-channel WLAN system and determine the throughput optimalchannel switching scheme within a certain class of schemes.

Dynamic Pricing of Power in Smart-Grid Networks

  In this paper we introduce the problem of dynamic pricing of power forsmart-grid networks. This is studied within a network utility maximization(NUM) framework in a deterministic setting with a single provider, multipleusers and a finite horizon. The provider produces power or buys power in a(deterministic) spot market, and determines a dynamic price to charge theusers. The users then adjust their demand in response to the time-varyingprices. This is typically categorized as the demand response problem, and westudy a progression of related models by focusing on two aspects: 1) thecharacterization of the structure of the optimal dynamic prices in the SmartGrid and the optimal demand and supply under various interaction with a spotmarket; 2) a greedy approach to facilitate the solution process of theaggregate NUM problem and the optimality gap between the greedy solution andthe optimal one.

Online Learning in Decentralized Multiuser Resource Sharing Problems

  In this paper, we consider the general scenario of resource sharing in adecentralized system when the resource rewards/qualities are time-varying andunknown to the users, and using the same resource by multiple users leads toreduced quality due to resource sharing. Firstly, we consider auser-independent reward model with no communication between the users, where auser gets feedback about the congestion level in the resource it uses.Secondly, we consider user-specific rewards and allow costly communicationbetween the users. The users have a cooperative goal of achieving the highestsystem utility. There are multiple obstacles in achieving this goal such as thedecentralized nature of the system, unknown resource qualities, communication,computation and switching costs. We propose distributed learning algorithmswith logarithmic regret with respect to the optimal allocation. Our logarithmicregret result holds under both i.i.d. and Markovian reward models, as well asunder communication, computation and switching costs.

Online Learning in a Contract Selection Problem

  In an online contract selection problem there is a seller which offers a setof contracts to sequentially arriving buyers whose types are drawn from anunknown distribution. If there exists a profitable contract for the buyer inthe offered set, i.e., a contract with payoff higher than the payoff of notaccepting any contracts, the buyer chooses the contract that maximizes itspayoff. In this paper we consider the online contract selection problem tomaximize the sellers profit. Assuming that a structural property called orderedpreferences holds for the buyer's payoff function, we propose online learningalgorithms that have sub-linear regret with respect to the best set ofcontracts given the distribution over the buyer's type. This problem has manyapplications including spectrum contracts, wireless service provider data plansand recommendation systems.

Closing the Price of Anarchy Gap in the Interdependent Security Game

  The reliability and security of a user in an interconnected system depends onall users' collective effort in security. Consequently, investments in securitytechnologies by strategic users is typically modeled as a public good problem,known as the Interdependent Security (IDS) game. The equilibria for such gamesare often inefficient, as selfish users free-ride on positive externalities ofothers' contributions. In this paper, we present a mechanism that implementsthe socially optimal equilibrium in an IDS game through a message exchangeprocess, in which users submit proposals about the security investment andtax/price profiles of one another. This mechanism is different from existingsolutions in that (1) it results in socially optimal levels of investment,closing the Price of Anarchy gap in the IDS game, (2) it is applicable to ageneral model of user interdependencies. We further consider the issue ofindividual rationality, often a trivial condition to satisfy in many resourceallocation problems, and argue that with positive externality, the incentive tostay out and free-ride on others' investment can make individual rationalitymuch harder to satisfy in designing a mechanism.

Efficient Sensor Fault Detection Using Group Testing

  When faulty sensors are rare in a network, diagnosing sensors individually isinefficient. This study introduces a novel use of concepts from group testingand Kalman filtering in detecting these rare faulty sensors with significantlyfewer number of tests. By assigning sensors to groups and performing Kalmanfilter-based fault detection over these groups, we obtain binary detectionoutcomes, which can then be used to recover the fault state of all sensors. Wefirst present this method using combinatorial group testing. We then present anovel adaptive group testing method based on Bayesian inference. This adaptivemethod further reduces the number of required tests and is suitable for noisygroup test systems. Compared to non-group testing methods, our algorithmachieves similar detection accuracy with fewer tests and thus lowercomputational complexity. Compared to other adaptive group testing methods, theproposed method achieves higher accuracy when test results are noisy. Weperform extensive numerical analysis using a set of real vibration datacollected from the New Carquinez Bridge in California using an 18-sensornetwork mounted on the bridge. We also discuss how the features of the Kalmanfilter-based group test can be exploited in forming groups and furtherimproving the detection accuracy.

A Tale of Two Mechanisms: Incentivizing Investments in Security Games

  In a system of interdependent users, the security of an entity is affectednot only by that user's investment in security measures, but also by thepositive externality of the security decisions of (some of) the other users.The provision of security in such system is therefore modeled as a public goodprovision problem, and is referred to as a security game. In this paper, wecompare two well-known incentive mechanisms in this context for incentivizingoptimal security investments among users, namely the Pivotal and theExternality mechanisms. The taxes in a Pivotal mechanism are designed to ensureusers' voluntary participation, while those in an Externality mechanism aredevised to maintain a balanced budget. We first show the more general resultthat, due to the non-excludable nature of security, no mechanism canincentivize the socially optimal investment profile, while at the same timeensuring voluntary participation and maintaining a balanced budget for allinstances of security games. To further illustrate, we apply the Pivotal andExternality mechanisms to the special case of weighted total effortinterdependence models, and identify some of the effects of varyinginterdependency between users on the budget deficit in the Pivotal mechanism,as well as on the participation incentives in the Externality mechanism.

On the Role of Public and Private Assessments in Security Information  Sharing Agreements

  In recent years, sharing of security information among organizations,particularly information on both successful and failed security breaches, hasbeen proposed as a method for improving the state of cybersecurity. However,there is a conflict between individual and social goals in these agreements:despite the benefits of making such information available, the associateddisclosure costs (e.g., drop in market value and loss of reputation) act as adisincentive for firms' full disclosure. In this work, we take a game theoreticapproach to understanding firms' incentives for disclosing their securityinformation given such costs. We propose a repeated game formulation of theseinteractions, allowing for the design of inter-temporal incentives (i.e.,conditioning future cooperation on the history of past interactions).Specifically, we show that a rating/assessment system can play a key role inenabling the design of appropriate incentives for supporting cooperation amongfirms. We further show that in the absence of a monitor, similar incentives canbe designed if participating firms are provided with a communication platform,through which they can share their beliefs about others' adherence to theagreement.

Provision of Public Goods on Networks: On Existence, Uniqueness, and  Centralities

  We consider the provision of public goods on networks of strategic agents. Westudy different effort outcomes of these network games, namely, the Nashequilibria, Pareto efficient effort profiles, and semi-cooperative equilibria(effort profiles resulting from interactions among coalitions of agents). Weidentify necessary and sufficient conditions on the structure of the networkfor the uniqueness of the Nash equilibrium. We show that our finding unifies(and strengthens) existing results in the literature. We also identifyconditions for the existence of Nash equilibria for the subclasses of games atthe two extremes of our model, namely games of strategic complements and gamesof strategic substitutes. We provide a graph-theoretical interpretation ofagents' efforts at the Nash equilibrium, as well as the Pareto efficientoutcomes and semi-cooperative equilibria, by linking an agent's decision to hercentrality in the interaction network. Using this connection, we separate theeffects of incoming and outgoing edges on agents' efforts and uncover analternating effect over walks of different length in the network.

Impact of Community Structure on Cascades

  The threshold model is widely used to study the propagation of opinions andtechnologies in social networks. In this model individuals adopt the newbehavior based on how many neighbors have already chosen it. We study cascadesunder the threshold model on sparse random graphs with community structure tosee whether the existence of communities affects the number of individuals whofinally adopt the new behavior. Specifically, we consider the permanentadoption model where nodes that have adopted the new behavior cannot changetheir state. When seeding a small number of agents with the new behavior, thecommunity structure has little effect on the final proportion of people thatadopt it, i.e., the contagion threshold is the same as if there were just onecommunity. On the other hand, seeding a fraction of population with the newbehavior has a significant impact on the cascade with the optimal seedingstrategy depending on how strongly the communities are connected. Inparticular, when the communities are strongly connected, seeding in onecommunity outperforms the symmetric seeding strategy that seeds equally in allcommunities.

Improving the Privacy and Accuracy of ADMM-Based Distributed Algorithms

  Alternating direction method of multiplier (ADMM) is a popular method used todesign distributed versions of a machine learning algorithm, whereby localcomputations are performed on local data with the output exchanged amongneighbors in an iterative fashion. During this iterative process the leakage ofdata privacy arises. A differentially private ADMM was proposed in prior work(Zhang & Zhu, 2017) where only the privacy loss of a single node during oneiteration was bounded, a method that makes it difficult to balance the tradeoffbetween the utility attained through distributed computation and privacyguarantees when considering the total privacy loss of all nodes over the entireiterative process. We propose a perturbation method for ADMM where theperturbed term is correlated with the penalty parameters; this is shown toimprove the utility and privacy simultaneously. The method is based on amodified ADMM where each node independently determines its own penaltyparameter in every iteration and decouples it from the dual updating step size.The condition for convergence of the modified ADMM and the lower bound on theconvergence rate are also derived.

Recycled ADMM: Improve Privacy and Accuracy with Less Computation in  Distributed Algorithms

  Alternating direction method of multiplier (ADMM) is a powerful method tosolve decentralized convex optimization problems. In distributed settings, eachnode performs computation with its local data and the local results areexchanged among neighboring nodes in an iterative fashion. During thisiterative process the leakage of data privacy arises and can accumulatesignificantly over many iterations, making it difficult to balance theprivacy-utility tradeoff. In this study we propose Recycled ADMM (R-ADMM),where a linear approximation is applied to every even iteration, its solutiondirectly calculated using only results from the previous, odd iteration. Itturns out that under such a scheme, half of the updates incur no privacy lossand require much less computation compared to the conventional ADMM. We obtaina sufficient condition for the convergence of R-ADMM and provide the privacyanalysis based on objective perturbation.

Characterizing Adversarial Examples Based on Spatial Consistency  Information for Semantic Segmentation

  Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) have been widely applied in various recognitiontasks. However, recently DNNs have been shown to be vulnerable againstadversarial examples, which can mislead DNNs to make arbitrary incorrectpredictions. While adversarial examples are well studied in classificationtasks, other learning problems may have different properties. For instance,semantic segmentation requires additional components such as dilatedconvolutions and multiscale processing. In this paper, we aim to characterizeadversarial examples based on spatial context information in semanticsegmentation. We observe that spatial consistency information can bepotentially leveraged to detect adversarial examples robustly even when astrong adaptive attacker has access to the model and detection strategies. Wealso show that adversarial examples based on attacks considered within thepaper barely transfer among models, even though transferability is common inclassification. Our observations shed new light on developing adversarialattacks and defenses to better understand the vulnerabilities of DNNs.

Group Learning and Opinion Diffusion in a Broadcast Network

  We analyze the following group learning problem in the context of opiniondiffusion: Consider a network with $M$ users, each facing $N$ options. In adiscrete time setting, at each time step, each user chooses $K$ out of the $N$options, and receive randomly generated rewards, whose statistics depend on theoptions chosen as well as the user itself, and are unknown to the users. Eachuser aims to maximize their expected total rewards over a certain time horizonthrough an online learning process, i.e., a sequence of exploration (samplingthe return of each option) and exploitation (selecting empirically goodoptions) steps.  Within this context we consider two group learning scenarios, (1) users withuniform preferences and (2) users with diverse preferences, and examine how auser should construct its learning process to best extract information fromother's decisions and experiences so as to maximize its own reward. Performanceis measured in {\em weak regret}, the difference between the user's totalreward and the reward from a user-specific best single-action policy (i.e.,always selecting the set of options generating the highest mean rewards forthis user). Within each scenario we also consider two cases: (i) when usersexchange full information, meaning they share the actual rewards they obtainedfrom their choices, and (ii) when users exchange limited information, e.g.,only their choices but not rewards obtained from these choices.

Throughput Scaling in Random Wireless Networks: A Non-Hierarchical  Multipath Routing Strategy

  Franceschetti et al. have recently shown that per-node throughput in anextended, ad hoc wireless network with $\Theta(n)$ randomly distributed nodesand multihop routing can be increased from the $\Omega({1 \over \sqrt{n} \logn})$ scaling demonstrated in the seminal paper of Gupta and Kumar to $\Omega({1\over \sqrt{n}})$. The goal of the present paper is to understand thedependence of this interesting result on the principal new features itintroduced relative to Gupta-Kumar: (1) a capacity-based formula for linktransmission bit-rates in terms of received signal-to-interference-and-noiseratio (SINR); (2) hierarchical routing from sources to destinations through asystem of communal highways; and (3) cell-based routes constructed bypercolation. The conclusion of the present paper is that the improvedthroughput scaling is principally due to the percolation-based routing, whichenables shorter hops and, consequently, less interference. This is establishedby showing that throughput $\Omega({1 \over \sqrt{n}})$ can be attained by asystem that does not employ highways, but instead uses percolation toestablish, for each source-destination pair, a set of $\Theta(\log n)$ routeswithin a narrow routing corridor running from source to destination. As aresult, highways are not essential. In addition, it is shown that throughput$\Omega({1 \over \sqrt{n}})$ can be attained with the original thresholdtransmission bit-rate model, provided that node transmission powers arepermitted to grow with $n$. Thus, the benefit of the capacity bit-rate model issimply to permit the power to remain bounded, even as the network expands.

Multi-channel Opportunistic Access: A Case of Restless Bandits with  Multiple Plays

  This paper considers the following stochastic control problem that arises inopportunistic spectrum access: a system consists of n channels (Gilbert-Elliotchannels)where the state (good or bad) of each channel evolves as independentand identically distributed Markov processes. A user can select exactly kchannels to sense and access (based on the sensing result) in each time slot. Areward is obtained whenever the user senses and accesses a good channel. Theobjective is to design a channel selection policy that maximizes the expecteddiscounted total reward accrued over a finite or infinite horizon. In ourprevious work we established the optimality of a greedy policy for the specialcase of k = 1 (i.e., single channel access) under the condition that thechannel state transitions are positively correlated over time. In this paper weshow under the same condition the greedy policy is optimal for the general caseof k >= 1; the methodology introduced here is thus more general. This problemmay be viewed as a special case of the restless bandit problem, with multipleplays. We discuss connections between the current problem and existingliterature on this class of problems.

Congestion games with resource reuse and applications in spectrum  sharing

  In this paper we consider an extension to the classical definition ofcongestion games (CG) in which multiple users share the same set of resourcesand their payoff for using any resource is a function of the total number ofusers sharing it. The classical congestion games enjoy some very appealingproperties, including the existence of a Nash equilibrium and that everyimprovement path is finite and leads to such a NE (also called the finiteimprovement property or FIP), which is also a local optimum to a potentialfunction. On the other hand, this class of games does not model well thecongestion or resource sharing in a wireless context, a prominent feature ofwhich is spatial reuse. What this translates to in the context of a congestiongame is that a users payoff for using a resource (interpreted as a channel) isa function of the its number of its interfering users sharing that channel,rather than the total number among all users. This makes the problem quitedifferent. We will call this the congestion game with resource reuse (CG-RR).In this paper we study intrinsic properties of such a game; in particular, weseek to address under what conditions on the underlying network this gamepossesses the FIP or NE. We also discuss the implications of these results whenapplied to wireless spectrum sharing

CapEst: A Measurement-based Approach to Estimating Link Capacity in  Wireless Networks

  Estimating link capacity in a wireless network is a complex task because theavailable capacity at a link is a function of not only the current arrival rateat that link, but also of the arrival rate at links which interfere with thatlink as well as of the nature of interference between these links. Models whichaccurately characterize this dependence are either too computationally complexto be useful or lack accuracy. Further, they have a high implementationoverhead and make restrictive assumptions, which makes them inapplicable toreal networks.  In this paper, we propose CapEst, a general, simple yet accurate,measurement-based approach to estimating link capacity in a wireless network.To be computationally light, CapEst allows inaccuracy in estimation; however,using measurements, it can correct this inaccuracy in an iterative fashion andconverge to the correct estimate. Our evaluation shows that CapEst alwaysconverged to within 5% of the correct value in less than 18 iterations. CapEstis model-independent, hence, is applicable to any MAC/PHY layer and works withauto-rate adaptation. Moreover, it has a low implementation overhead, can beused with any application which requires an estimate of residual capacity on awireless link and can be implemented completely at the network layer withoutany support from the underlying chipset.

Networked Computing in Wireless Sensor Networks for Structural Health  Monitoring

  This paper studies the problem of distributed computation over a network ofwireless sensors. While this problem applies to many emerging applications, tokeep our discussion concrete we will focus on sensor networks used forstructural health monitoring. Within this context, the heaviest computation isto determine the singular value decomposition (SVD) to extract mode shapes(eigenvectors) of a structure. Compared to collecting raw vibration data andperforming SVD at a central location, computing SVD within the network canresult in significantly lower energy consumption and delay. Using recentresults on decomposing SVD, a well-known centralized operation, intocomponents, we seek to determine a near-optimal communication structure thatenables the distribution of this computation and the reassembly of the finalresults, with the objective of minimizing energy consumption subject to acomputational delay constraint. We show that this reduces to a generalizedclustering problem; a cluster forms a unit on which a component of the overallcomputation is performed. We establish that this problem is NP-hard. Byrelaxing the delay constraint, we derive a lower bound to this problem. We thenpropose an integer linear program (ILP) to solve the constrained problemexactly as well as an approximate algorithm with a proven approximation ratio.We further present a distributed version of the approximate algorithm. Wepresent both simulation and experimentation results to demonstrate theeffectiveness of these algorithms.

Spectrum Sharing as Spatial Congestion Games

  In this paper, we present and analyze the properties of a new class of games- the spatial congestion game (SCG), which is a generalization of the classicalcongestion game (CG). In a classical congestion game, multiple users share thesame set of resources and a user's payoff for using any resource is a functionof the total number of users sharing it. As a potential game, this game enjoyssome very appealing properties, including the existence of a pure strategy Nashequilibrium (NE) and that every improvement path is finite and leads to such aNE (also called the finite improvement property or FIP). While it's tempting touse this model to study spectrum sharing, it does not capture the spatial reusefeature of wireless communication, where resources (interpreted as channels)may be reused without increasing congestion provided that users are located faraway from each other. This motivates us to study an extended form of thecongestion game where a user's payoff for using a resource is a function of thenumber of its interfering users sharing it. This naturally results in a spatialcongestion game (SCG), where users are placed over a network (or a conflictgraph). We study fundamental properties of a spatial congestion game; inparticular, we seek to answer under what conditions this game possesses thefinite improvement property or a Nash equilibrium. We also discuss theimplications of these results when applied to wireless spectrum sharing.

On the Combinatorial Multi-Armed Bandit Problem with Markovian Rewards

  We consider a combinatorial generalization of the classical multi-armedbandit problem that is defined as follows. There is a given bipartite graph of$M$ users and $N \geq M$ resources. For each user-resource pair $(i,j)$, thereis an associated state that evolves as an aperiodic irreducible finite-stateMarkov chain with unknown parameters, with transitions occurring each time theparticular user $i$ is allocated resource $j$. The user $i$ receives a rewardthat depends on the corresponding state each time it is allocated the resource$j$. The system objective is to learn the best matching of users to resourcesso that the long-term sum of the rewards received by all users is maximized.This corresponds to minimizing regret, defined here as the gap between theexpected total reward that can be obtained by the best-possible static matchingand the expected total reward that can be achieved by a given algorithm. Wepresent a polynomial-storage and polynomial-complexity-per-stepmatching-learning algorithm for this problem. We show that this algorithm canachieve a regret that is uniformly arbitrarily close to logarithmic in time andpolynomial in the number of users and resources. This formulation is broadlyapplicable to scheduling and switching problems in networks and significantlyextends prior results in the area.

Profit Incentive In A Secondary Spectrum Market: A Contract Design  Approach

  In this paper we formulate a contract design problem where a primary licenseholder wishes to profit from its excess spectrum capacity by selling it topotential secondary users/buyers. It needs to determine how to optimally pricethe excess spectrum so as to maximize its profit, knowing that this excesscapacity is stochastic in nature, does not come with exclusive access, andcannot provide deterministic service guarantees to a buyer. At the same time,buyers are of different {\em types}, characterized by different communicationneeds, tolerance for the channel uncertainty, and so on, all of which a buyer'sprivate information. The license holder must then try to design differentcontracts catered to different types of buyers in order to maximize its profit.We address this problem by adopting as a reference a traditional spectrummarket where the buyer can purchase exclusive access with fixed/deterministicguarantees. We fully characterize the optimal solution in the cases where thereis a single buyer type, and when multiple types of buyers share the same, knownchannel condition as a result of the primary user activity. In the most generalcase we construct an algorithm that generates a set of contracts in acomputationally efficient manner, and show that this set is optimal when thebuyer types satisfy a monotonicity condition.

Perceptions and Truth: A Mechanism Design Approach to Crowd-Sourcing  Reputation

  We consider a distributed multi-user system where individual entities possessobservations or perceptions of one another, while the truth is only known tothemselves, and they might have an interest in withholding or distorting thetruth. We ask the question whether it is possible for the system as a whole toarrive at the correct perceptions or assessment of all users, referred to astheir reputation, by encouraging or incentivizing the users to participate in acollective effort without violating private information and self-interest. Twospecific applications, online shopping and network reputation, are provided tomotivate our study and interpret the results. In this paper we investigate thisproblem using a mechanism design theoretic approach. We introduce a number ofutility models representing users' strategic behavior, each consisting of oneor both of a truth element and an image element, reflecting the user's desireto obtain an accurate view of the other and an inflated image of itself. Foreach model, we either design a mechanism that achieves the optimal performance(solution to the corresponding centralized problem), or present individuallyrational sub-optimal solutions. In the latter case, we demonstrate that evenwhen the centralized solution is not achievable, by using a simplepunish-reward mechanism, not only a user has the incentive to participate andprovide information, but also that this information can improve the systemperformance.

A Reputation-Based Contract for Repeated Crowdsensing with Costly  Verification

  We study a setup in which a system operator hires a sensor to exert costlyeffort to collect accurate measurements of a value of interest over time. Ateach time, the sensor is asked to report his observation to the operator, andis compensated based on the accuracy of this observation. Since both the effortand observation are private information for the sensor, a naive payment schemewhich compensates the sensor based only on his self-reported values will leadto both shirking and falsification of outcomes by the sensor. We consider theproblem of designing an appropriate compensation scheme to incentivize thesensor to at once exert costly effort and truthfully reveal the resultingobservation.  To this end, we formulate the problem as a repeated game and propose acompensation scheme that employs stochastic verification by the operatorcoupled with a system of assigning reputation to the sensor. In particular, ourproposed payment scheme compensates the sensor based on both the effort in thecurrent period as well as the history of past behavior. We show that by usingpast behavior in determining present payments, the operator can bothincentivize higher effort as well as more frequent truthtelling by the sensorand decrease the required verification frequency.

Generating Adversarial Examples with Adversarial Networks

  Deep neural networks (DNNs) have been found to be vulnerable to adversarialexamples resulting from adding small-magnitude perturbations to inputs. Suchadversarial examples can mislead DNNs to produce adversary-selected results.Different attack strategies have been proposed to generate adversarialexamples, but how to produce them with high perceptual quality and moreefficiently requires more research efforts. In this paper, we propose AdvGAN togenerate adversarial examples with generative adversarial networks (GANs),which can learn and approximate the distribution of original instances. ForAdvGAN, once the generator is trained, it can generate adversarialperturbations efficiently for any instance, so as to potentially accelerateadversarial training as defenses. We apply AdvGAN in both semi-whitebox andblack-box attack settings. In semi-whitebox attacks, there is no need to accessthe original target model after the generator is trained, in contrast totraditional white-box attacks. In black-box attacks, we dynamically train adistilled model for the black-box model and optimize the generator accordingly.Adversarial examples generated by AdvGAN on different target models have highattack success rate under state-of-the-art defenses compared to other attacks.Our attack has placed the first with 92.76% accuracy on a public MNISTblack-box attack challenge.

Spatially Transformed Adversarial Examples

  Recent studies show that widely used deep neural networks (DNNs) arevulnerable to carefully crafted adversarial examples. Many advanced algorithmshave been proposed to generate adversarial examples by leveraging the$\mathcal{L}_p$ distance for penalizing perturbations. Researchers haveexplored different defense methods to defend against such adversarial attacks.While the effectiveness of $\mathcal{L}_p$ distance as a metric of perceptualquality remains an active research area, in this paper we will instead focus ona different type of perturbation, namely spatial transformation, as opposed tomanipulating the pixel values directly as in prior works. Perturbationsgenerated through spatial transformation could result in large $\mathcal{L}_p$distance measures, but our extensive experiments show that such spatiallytransformed adversarial examples are perceptually realistic and more difficultto defend against with existing defense systems. This potentially provides anew direction in adversarial example generation and the design of correspondingdefenses. We visualize the spatial transformation based perturbation fordifferent examples and show that our technique can produce realisticadversarial examples with smooth image deformation. Finally, we visualize theattention of deep networks with different types of adversarial examples tobetter understand how these examples are interpreted.

Realistic Adversarial Examples in 3D Meshes

  Highly expressive models such as deep neural networks (DNNs) have been widelyapplied to various applications and achieved increasing success. However,recent studies show that such machine learning models appear to be vulnerableagainst adversarial examples. So far adversarial examples have been heavilyexplored for 2D images, while few works have conducted to understandvulnerabilities of 3D objects which exist in real world, where 3D objects areprojected to 2D domains by photo taking for different learning (recognition)tasks. In this paper, we consider adversarial behaviors in practical scenariosby manipulating the shape and texture of a given 3D mesh representation of anobject. Our goal is to project the optimized "adversarial meshes" to 2D with aphotorealistic renderer, and still able to mislead different machine learningmodels. Extensive experiments show that by generating unnoticeable 3Dadversarial perturbation on shape or texture for a 3D mesh, the correspondingprojected 2D instance can either lead classifiers to misclassify the victimobject as an arbitrary malicious target, or hide any target object within thescene from object detectors. We conduct human studies to show that ouroptimized adversarial 3D perturbation is highly unnoticeable for human visionsystems. In addition to the subtle perturbation for a given 3D mesh, we alsopropose to synthesize a realistic 3D mesh and put in a scene mimicking similarrendering conditions and therefore attack different machine learning models.In-depth analysis of transferability among various 3D renderers and vulnerableregions of meshes are provided to help better understand adversarial behaviorsin real-world.

Sufficient Conditions on the Optimality of Myopic Sensing in  Opportunistic Channel Access: A Unifying Framework

  This paper considers a widely studied stochastic control problem arising fromopportunistic spectrum access (OSA) in a multi-channel system, with the goal ofproviding a unifying analytical framework whereby a number of prior results maybe viewed as special cases. Specifically, we consider a single wirelesstransceiver/user with access to $N$ channels, each modeled as an iiddiscrete-time two-state Markov chain. In each time step the user is allowed tosense $k\leq N$ channels, and subsequently use up to $m\leq k$ channels out ofthose sensed to be available. Channel sensing is assumed to be perfect, and foreach channel use in each time step the user gets a unit reward. The user'sobjective is to maximize its total discounted or average reward over a finiteor infinite horizon. This problem has previously been studied in variousspecial cases including $k=1$ and $m=k\leq N$, often cast as a restless banditproblem, with optimality results derived for a myopic policy that seeks tomaximize the immediate one-step reward when the two-state Markov chain model ispositively correlated. In this paper we study the general problem with $1\leqm\leq k\leq N$, and derive sufficient conditions under which the myopic policyis optimal for the finite and infinite horizon reward criteria, respectively.It is shown that these results reduce to those derived in prior studies underthe corresponding special cases, and thus may be viewed as a set of unifyingoptimality conditions. Numerical examples are also presented to highlight howand why an optimal policy may deviate from the otherwise-optimal myopic sensinggiven additional exploration opportunities, i.e., when $m<k$.

An Online Approach to Dynamic Channel Access and Transmission Scheduling

  Making judicious channel access and transmission scheduling decisions isessential for improving performance as well as energy and spectral efficiencyin multichannel wireless systems. This problem has been a subject of extensivestudy in the past decade, and the resulting dynamic and opportunistic channelaccess schemes can bring potentially significant improvement over traditionalschemes. However, a common and severe limitation of these dynamic schemes isthat they almost always require some form of a priori knowledge of the channelstatistics. A natural remedy is a learning framework, which has also beenextensively studied in the same context, but a typical learning algorithm inthis literature seeks only the best static policy, with performance measured byweak regret, rather than learning a good dynamic channel access policy. Thereis thus a clear disconnect between what an optimal channel access policy canachieve with known channel statistics that actively exploits temporal, spatialand spectral diversity, and what a typical existing learning algorithm aimsfor, which is the static use of a single channel devoid of diversity gain. Inthis paper we bridge this gap by designing learning algorithms that track knownoptimal or sub-optimal dynamic channel access and transmission schedulingpolicies, thereby yielding performance measured by a form of strong regret, theaccumulated difference between the reward returned by an optimal solution whena priori information is available and that by our online algorithm. We do so inthe context of two specific algorithms that appeared in [1] and [2],respectively, the former for a multiuser single-channel setting and the latterfor a single-user multichannel setting. In both cases we show that ouralgorithms achieve sub-linear regret uniform in time and outperforms thestandard weak-regret learning algorithms.

Energy-Efficient Transmission Scheduling with Strict Underflow  Constraints

  We consider a single source transmitting data to one or more receivers/usersover a shared wireless channel. Due to random fading, the wireless channelconditions vary with time and from user to user. Each user has a buffer tostore received packets before they are drained. At each time step, the sourcedetermines how much power to use for transmission to each user. The source'sobjective is to allocate power in a manner that minimizes an expected costmeasure, while satisfying strict buffer underflow constraints and a total powerconstraint in each slot. The expected cost measure is composed of costsassociated with power consumption from transmission and packet holding costs.The primary application motivating this problem is wireless media streaming.For this application, the buffer underflow constraints prevent the user buffersfrom emptying, so as to maintain playout quality. In the case of a single userwith linear power-rate curves, we show that a modified base-stock policy isoptimal under the finite horizon, infinite horizon discounted, and infinitehorizon average expected cost criteria. For a single user with piecewise-linearconvex power-rate curves, we show that a finite generalized base-stock policyis optimal under all three expected cost criteria. We also present thesequences of critical numbers that complete the characterization of the optimalcontrol laws in each of these cases when some additional technical conditionsare satisfied. We then analyze the structure of the optimal policy for the caseof two users. We conclude with a discussion of methods to identifyimplementable near-optimal policies for the most general case of M users.

Online Learning in Opportunistic Spectrum Access: A Restless Bandit  Approach

  We consider an opportunistic spectrum access (OSA) problem where thetime-varying condition of each channel (e.g., as a result of random fading orcertain primary users' activities) is modeled as an arbitrary finite-stateMarkov chain. At each instance of time, a (secondary) user probes a channel andcollects a certain reward as a function of the state of the channel (e.g., goodchannel condition results in higher data rate for the user). Each channel haspotentially different state space and statistics, both unknown to the user, whotries to learn which one is the best as it goes and maximizes its usage of thebest channel. The objective is to construct a good online learning algorithm soas to minimize the difference between the user's performance in total rewardsand that of using the best channel (on average) had it known which one is thebest from a priori knowledge of the channel statistics (also known as theregret). This is a classic exploration and exploitation problem and resultsabound when the reward processes are assumed to be iid. Compared to prior work,the biggest difference is that in our case the reward process is assumed to beMarkovian, of which iid is a special case. In addition, the reward processesare restless in that the channel conditions will continue to evolve independentof the user's actions. This leads to a restless bandit problem, for which thereexists little result on either algorithms or performance bounds in thislearning context to the best of our knowledge. In this paper we introduce analgorithm that utilizes regenerative cycles of a Markov chain and computes asample-mean based index policy, and show that under mild conditions on thestate transition probabilities of the Markov chains this algorithm achieveslogarithmic regret uniformly over time, and that this regret bound is alsooptimal.

Incentives, Quality, and Risks: A Look Into the NSF Proposal Review  Pilot

  The National Science Foundation (NSF) will be experimenting with a newdistributed approach to reviewing proposals, whereby a group of principalinvestigators (PIs) or proposers in a subfield act as reviewers for theproposals submitted by the same set of PIs. To encourage honesty, PIs' chancesfor getting funded are tied to the quality of their reviews (with respect tothe reviews provided by the entire group), in addition to the quality of theirproposals. Intuitively, this approach can more fairly distribute the reviewworkload, discourage frivolous proposal submission, and encourage high qualityreviews. On the other hand, this method has already raised concerns about theintegrity of the process and the possibility of strategic manipulation. In thispaper, we take a closer look at three specific issues in an attempt to gain abetter understanding of the strengths and limitations of the new process beyondfirst impressions and anecdotal evidence. We start by considering the benefitsand drawbacks of bundling the quality of PIs' reviews with the scientific meritof their proposals. We then consider the issue of collusion and favoritism.Finally, we examine whether the new process puts controversial proposals at adisadvantage. We conclude that some benefits of using review quality as anincentive mechanism may outweigh its drawbacks. On the other hand, even acoalition of two PIs can cause significant harm to the process, as the built-inincentives are not strong enough to deter collusion. While we also confirm thecommon suspicion that the process is skewed toward non-controversial proposals,the more unexpected finding is that among equally controversial proposals,those of lower quality get a leg up through this process. Thus the process notonly favors non-controversial proposals, but in some sense, mediocrity. We alsodiscuss possible ways to improve this review process.

