Underwater Surveying via Bearing only Cooperative Localization

  Bearing only cooperative localization has been used successfully on aerial
and ground vehicles. In this paper we present an extension of the approach to
the underwater domain. The focus is on adapting the technique to handle the
challenging visibility conditions underwater. Furthermore, data from inertial,
magnetic, and depth sensors are utilized to improve the robustness of the
estimation. In addition to robotic applications, the presented technique can be
used for cave mapping and for marine archeology surveying, both by human
divers. Experimental results from different environments, including a fresh
water, low visibility, lake in South Carolina; a cavern in Florida; and coral
reefs in Barbados during the day and during the night, validate the robustness
and the accuracy of the proposed approach.


Multi-robot Dubins Coverage with Autonomous Surface Vehicles

  In large scale coverage operations, such as marine exploration or aerial
monitoring, single robot approaches are not ideal, as they may take too long to
cover a large area. In such scenarios, multi-robot approaches are preferable.
Furthermore, several real world vehicles are non-holonomic, but can be modeled
using Dubins vehicle kinematics. This paper focuses on environmental monitoring
of aquatic environments using Autonomous Surface Vehicles (ASVs). In
particular, we propose a novel approach for solving the problem of complete
coverage of a known environment by a multi-robot team consisting of Dubins
vehicles. It is worth noting that both multi-robot coverage and Dubins vehicle
coverage are NP-complete problems. As such, we present two heuristics methods
based on a variant of the traveling salesman problem -- k-TSP -- formulation
and clustering algorithms that efficiently solve the problem. The proposed
methods are tested both in simulations to assess their scalability and with a
team of ASVs operating on a lake to ensure their applicability in real world.


An Autonomous Surface Vehicle for Long Term Operations

  Environmental monitoring of marine environments presents several challenges:
the harshness of the environment, the often remote location, and most
importantly, the vast area it covers. Manual operations are time consuming,
often dangerous, and labor intensive. Operations from oceanographic vessels are
costly and limited to open seas and generally deeper bodies of water. In
addition, with lake, river, and ocean shoreline being a finite resource,
waterfront property presents an ever increasing valued commodity, requiring
exploration and continued monitoring of remote waterways. In order to
efficiently explore and monitor currently known marine environments as well as
reach and explore remote areas of interest, we present a design of an
autonomous surface vehicle (ASV) with the power to cover large areas, the
payload capacity to carry sufficient power and sensor equipment, and enough
fuel to remain on task for extended periods. An analysis of the design and a
discussion on lessons learned during deployments is presented in this paper.


External Force Field Modeling for Autonomous Surface Vehicles

  Operating in the presence of strong adverse forces is a particularly
challenging problem in field robotics. In most robotic operations where the
robot is not firmly grounded, such as aerial, surface, and underwater, minimal
external forces are assumed as the standard operating procedures. The first
action for operating in the presence of non-trivial forces is modeling the
forces and their effect on the robots motion. In this work an Autonomous
Surface Vehicle (ASV), operating on lakes and rivers with varying winds and
currents, collects wind and current measurements with an inexpensive
custom-made sensor suite setup, and generates a model of the force field. The
modeling process takes into account depth, wind, and current measurements along
with the ASVs trajectory from GPS. In this work, we propose a method for an ASV
to build an environmental force map by integrating in a Gaussian Process the
wind, depth, and current measurements gathered at the surface. We run extensive
experimental field trials for our approach on real Jetyak ASVs. Experimental
results from different locations validate the proposed modeling approach.


An Underwater SLAM System using Sonar, Visual, Inertial, and Depth
  Sensor

  This paper presents a novel tightly-coupled keyframe-based Simultaneous
Localization and Mapping (SLAM) system with loop-closing and relocalization
capabilities targeted for the underwater domain. Our previous work, SVIn,
augmented the state-of-the-art visual-inertial state estimation package OKVIS
to accommodate acoustic data from sonar in a non-linear optimization-based
framework. This paper addresses drift and loss of localization -- one of the
main problems affecting other packages in underwater domain -- by providing the
following main contributions: a robust initialization method to refine scale
using depth measurements, a fast preprocessing step to enhance the image
quality, and a real-time loop-closing and relocalization method using bag of
words (BoW). An additional contribution is the addition of depth measurements
from a pressure sensor to the tightly-coupled optimization formulation.
Experimental results on datasets collected with a custom-made underwater sensor
suite and an autonomous underwater vehicle from challenging underwater
environments with poor visibility demonstrate performance never achieved before
in terms of accuracy and robustness.


Autonomous Marine Sampling Enhanced by Strategically Deployed Drifters
  in Marine Flow Fields

  We present a transportable system for ocean observations in which a small
autonomous surface vehicle (ASV) adaptively collects spatially diverse samples
with aid from a team of inexpensive, passive floating sensors known as
drifters. Drifters can provide an increase in spatial coverage at little cost
as they are propelled about the survey area by the ambient flow field instead
of with actuators. Our iterative planning approach demonstrates how we can use
the ASV to strategically deploy drifters into points of the flow field for high
expected information gain, while also adaptively sampling the space. In this
paper, we examine the performance of this heterogeneous sensing system in
simulated flow field experiments.


Experimental Comparison of Open Source Visual-Inertial-Based State
  Estimation Algorithms in the Underwater Domain

  A plethora of state estimation techniques have appeared in the last decade
using visual data, and more recently with added inertial data. Datasets
typically used for evaluation include indoor and urban environments, where
supporting videos have shown impressive performance. However, such techniques
have not been fully evaluated in challenging conditions, such as the marine
domain. In this paper, we compare ten recent open-source packages to provide
insights on their performance and guidelines on addressing current challenges.
Specifically, we selected direct methods and tightly-coupled optimization
techniques that fuse camera and Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) data together.
Experiments are conducted by testing all packages on datasets collected over
the years with underwater robots in our laboratory. All the datasets are made
available online.


