Optimal Power Cost Management Using Stored Energy in Data Centers

  Since the electricity bill of a data center constitutes a significant portion
of its overall operational costs, reducing this has become important. We
investigate cost reduction opportunities that arise by the use of uninterrupted
power supply (UPS) units as energy storage devices. This represents a deviation
from the usual use of these devices as mere transitional fail-over mechanisms
between utility and captive sources such as diesel generators. We consider the
problem of opportunistically using these devices to reduce the time average
electric utility bill in a data center. Using the technique of Lyapunov
optimization, we develop an online control algorithm that can optimally exploit
these devices to minimize the time average cost. This algorithm operates
without any knowledge of the statistics of the workload or electricity cost
processes, making it attractive in the presence of workload and pricing
uncertainties. An interesting feature of our algorithm is that its deviation
from optimality reduces as the storage capacity is increased. Our work opens up
a new area in data center power management.


Predicting vehicular travel times by modeling heterogeneous influences
  between arterial roads

  Predicting travel times of vehicles in urban settings is a useful and
tangible quantity of interest in the context of intelligent transportation
systems. We address the problem of travel time prediction in arterial roads
using data sampled from probe vehicles. There is only a limited literature on
methods using data input from probe vehicles. The spatio-temporal dependencies
captured by existing data driven approaches are either too detailed or very
simplistic. We strike a balance of the existing data driven approaches to
account for varying degrees of influence a given road may experience from its
neighbors, while controlling the number of parameters to be learnt.
Specifically, we use a NoisyOR conditional probability distribution (CPD) in
conjunction with a dynamic bayesian network (DBN) to model state transitions of
various roads. We propose an efficient algorithm to learn model parameters. We
propose an algorithm for predicting travel times on trips of arbitrary
durations. Using synthetic and real world data traces we demonstrate the
superior performance of the proposed method under different traffic conditions.


Data Center Cost Optimization Via Workload Modulation Under Real-World
  Electricity Pricing

  We formulate optimization problems to study how data centers might modulate
their power demands for cost-effective operation taking into account three key
complex features exhibited by real-world electricity pricing schemes: (i)
time-varying prices (e.g., time-of-day pricing, spot pricing, or higher energy
prices during coincident peaks) and (ii) separate charge for peak power
consumption. Our focus is on demand modulation at the granularity of an entire
data center or a large part of it. For computational tractability reasons, we
work with a fluid model for power demands which we imagine can be modulated
using two abstract knobs of demand dropping and demand delaying (each with its
associated penalties or costs). Given many data center workloads and electric
prices can be effectively predicted using statistical modeling techniques, we
devise a stochastic dynamic program (SDP) that can leverage such predictive
models. Since the SDP can be computationally infeasible in many real platforms,
we devise approximations for it. We also devise fully online algorithms that
might be useful for scenarios with poor power demand or utility price
predictability. For one of our online algorithms, we prove a competitive ratio
of 2-1/n. Finally, using empirical evaluation with both real-world and
synthetic power demands and real-world prices, we demonstrate the efficacy of
our techniques. As two salient empirically-gained insights: (i) demand delaying
is more effective than demand dropping regarding to peak shaving (e.g., 10.74%
cost saving with only delaying vs. 1.45% with only dropping for Google
workload) and (ii) workloads tend to have different cost saving potential under
various electricity tariffs (e.g., 16.97% cost saving under peak-based tariff
vs. 1.55% under time-varying pricing tariff for Facebook workload).


