EMBERS at 4 years: Experiences operating an Open Source Indicators
  Forecasting System

  EMBERS is an anticipatory intelligence system forecasting population-level
events in multiple countries of Latin America. A deployed system from 2012,
EMBERS has been generating alerts 24x7 by ingesting a broad range of data
sources including news, blogs, tweets, machine coded events, currency rates,
and food prices. In this paper, we describe our experiences operating EMBERS
continuously for nearly 4 years, with specific attention to the discoveries it
has enabled, correct as well as missed forecasts, and lessons learnt from
participating in a forecasting tournament including our perspectives on the
limits of forecasting and ethical considerations.


Efficient Algorithms for Maximum Link Scheduling in Distributed
  Computing Models with SINR Constraints

  A fundamental problem in wireless networks is the maximum link scheduling
problem: given a set $L$ of links, compute the largest possible subset
$L'\subseteq L$ of links that can be scheduled simultaneously without
interference. This problem is particularly challenging in the physical
interference model based on SINR constraints (referred to as the SINR model),
which has gained a lot of interest in recent years. Constant factor
approximation algorithms have been developed for this problem, but low
complexity distributed algorithms that give the same approximation guarantee in
the SINR model are not known. Distributed algorithms are especially challenging
in this model, because of its non-locality.
  In this paper, we develop a set of fast distributed algorithms in the SINR
model, providing constant approximation for the maximum link scheduling problem
under uniform power assignment. We find that different aspects of available
technology, such as full/half-duplex communication, and non-adaptive/adaptive
power control, have a significant impact on the performance of the algorithm;
these issues have not been explored in the context of distributed algorithms in
the SINR model before. Our algorithms' running time is $O(g(L) \log^c m)$,
where $c=1,2,3$ for different problem instances, and $g(L)$ is the "link
diversity" determined by the logarithmic scale of a communication link length.
Since $g(L)$ is small and remains in a constant range in most cases, our
algorithms serve as the first set of "sublinear" time distributed solution. The
algorithms are randomized and crucially use physical carrier sensing in
distributed communication steps.


Forecasting the Flu: Designing Social Network Sensors for Epidemics

  Early detection and modeling of a contagious epidemic can provide important
guidance about quelling the contagion, controlling its spread, or the effective
design of countermeasures. A topic of recent interest has been to design social
network sensors, i.e., identifying a small set of people who can be monitored
to provide insight into the emergence of an epidemic in a larger population. We
formally pose the problem of designing social network sensors for flu epidemics
and identify two different objectives that could be targeted in such sensor
design problems. Using the graph theoretic notion of dominators we develop an
efficient and effective heuristic for forecasting epidemics at lead time. Using
six city-scale datasets generated by extensive microscopic epidemiological
simulations involving millions of individuals, we illustrate the practical
applicability of our methods and show significant benefits (up to twenty-two
days more lead time) compared to other competitors. Most importantly, we
demonstrate the use of surrogates or proxies for policy makers for designing
social network sensors that require from nonintrusive knowledge of people to
more information on the relationship among people. The results show that the
more intrusive information we obtain, the longer lead time to predict the flu
outbreak up to nine days.


'Beating the news' with EMBERS: Forecasting Civil Unrest using Open
  Source Indicators

  We describe the design, implementation, and evaluation of EMBERS, an
automated, 24x7 continuous system for forecasting civil unrest across 10
countries of Latin America using open source indicators such as tweets, news
sources, blogs, economic indicators, and other data sources. Unlike
retrospective studies, EMBERS has been making forecasts into the future since
Nov 2012 which have been (and continue to be) evaluated by an independent T&E
team (MITRE). Of note, EMBERS has successfully forecast the uptick and downtick
of incidents during the June 2013 protests in Brazil. We outline the system
architecture of EMBERS, individual models that leverage specific data sources,
and a fusion and suppression engine that supports trading off specific
evaluation criteria. EMBERS also provides an audit trail interface that enables
the investigation of why specific predictions were made along with the data
utilized for forecasting. Through numerous evaluations, we demonstrate the
superiority of EMBERS over baserate methods and its capability to forecast
significant societal happenings.


Approximation Algorithms for Reducing the Spectral Radius to Control
  Epidemic Spread

  The largest eigenvalue of the adjacency matrix of a network (referred to as
the spectral radius) is an important metric in its own right. Further, for
several models of epidemic spread on networks (e.g., the `flu-like' SIS model),
it has been shown that an epidemic dies out quickly if the spectral radius of
the graph is below a certain threshold that depends on the model parameters.
This motivates a strategy to control epidemic spread by reducing the spectral
radius of the underlying network.
  In this paper, we develop a suite of provable approximation algorithms for
reducing the spectral radius by removing the minimum cost set of edges
(modeling quarantining) or nodes (modeling vaccinations), with different time
and quality tradeoffs. Our main algorithm, \textsc{GreedyWalk}, is based on the
idea of hitting closed walks of a given length, and gives an
$O(\log^2{n})$-approximation, where $n$ denotes the number of nodes; it also
performs much better in practice compared to all prior heuristics proposed for
this problem. We further present a novel sparsification method to improve its
running time.
  In addition, we give a new primal-dual based algorithm with an even better
approximation guarantee ($O(\log n)$), albeit with slower running time. We also
give lower bounds on the worst-case performance of some of the popular
heuristics. Finally we demonstrate the applicability of our algorithms and the
properties of our solutions via extensive experiments on multiple synthetic and
real networks.


High-Performance Massive Subgraph Counting using Pipelined
  Adaptive-Group Communication

  Subgraph counting aims to count the number of occurrences of a subgraph T
(aka as a template) in a given graph G. The basic problem has found
applications in diverse domains. The problem is known to be computationally
challenging - the complexity grows both as a function of T and G. Recent
applications have motivated solving such problems on massive networks with
billions of vertices. In this chapter, we study the subgraph counting problem
from a parallel computing perspective. We discuss efficient parallel algorithms
for approximately resolving subgraph counting problems by using the
color-coding technique. We then present several system-level strategies to
substantially improve the overall performance of the algorithm in massive
subgraph counting problems. We propose: 1) a novel pipelined Adaptive-Group
communication pattern to improve inter-node scalability, 2) a fine-grained
pipeline design to effectively reduce the memory space of intermediate results,
3) partitioning neighbor lists of subgraph vertices to achieve better thread
concurrency and workload balance. Experimentation on an Intel Xeon E5 cluster
shows that our implementation achieves 5x speedup of performance compared to
the state-of-the-art work while reduces the peak memory utilization by a factor
of 2 on large templates of 12 to 15 vertices and input graphs of 2 to 5
billions of edges.


A GraphBLAS Approach for Subgraph Counting

  Subgraph counting aims to count the occurrences of a subgraph template T in a
given network G. The basic problem of computing structural properties such as
counting triangles and other subgraphs has found applications in diverse
domains. Recent biological, social, cybersecurity and sensor network
applications have motivated solving such problems on massive networks with
billions of vertices. The larger subgraph problem is known to be memory bounded
and computationally challenging to scale; the complexity grows both as a
function of T and G. In this paper, we study the non-induced tree subgraph
counting problem, propose a novel layered softwarehardware co-design approach,
and implement a shared-memory multi-threaded algorithm: 1) reducing the
complexity of the parallel color-coding algorithm by identifying and pruning
redundant graph traversal; 2) achieving a fully-vectorized implementation upon
linear algebra kernels inspired by GraphBLAS, which significantly improves
cache usage and maximizes memory bandwidth utilization. Experiments show that
our implementation improves the overall performance over the state-of-the-art
work by orders of magnitude and up to 660x for subgraph templates with size
over 12 on a dual-socket Intel(R) Xeon(R) Platinum 8160 server. We believe our
approach using GraphBLAS with optimized sparse linear algebra can be applied to
other massive subgraph counting problems and emerging high-memory bandwidth
hardware architectures.


