Detecting Sockpuppets in Deceptive Opinion Spam

  This paper explores the problem of sockpuppet detection in deceptive opinion
spam using authorship attribution and verification approaches. Two methods are
explored. The first is a feature subsampling scheme that uses the KL-Divergence
on stylistic language models of an author to find discriminative features. The
second is a transduction scheme, spy induction that leverages the diversity of
authors in the unlabeled test set by sending a set of spies (positive samples)
from the training set to retrieve hidden samples in the unlabeled test set
using nearest and farthest neighbors. Experiments using ground truth sockpuppet
data show the effectiveness of the proposed schemes.


Anticipation: an effective evolutionary strategy for a sub-optimal
  population in a cyclic environment

  We built a two-state model of an asexually reproducing organism in a periodic
environment endowed with the capability to anticipate an upcoming environmental
change and undergo pre-emptive switching. By virtue of these anticipatory
transitions, the organism oscillates between its two states that is a time
$\theta$ out of sync with the environmental oscillation. We show that an
anticipation-capable organism increases its long-term fitness over an organism
that oscillates in-sync with the environment, provided $\theta$ does not exceed
a threshold. We also show that the long-term fitness is maximized for an
optimal anticipation time that decreases approximately as $1/n$, $n$ being the
number of cell divisions in time $T$. Furthermore, we demonstrate that optimal
"anticipators" outperforms "bet-hedgers" in the range of parameters considered.
For a sub-optimal ensemble of anticipators, anticipation performs better to
bet-hedging only when the variance in anticipation is small compared to the
mean and the rate of pre-emptive transition is high. Taken together, our work
suggests that anticipation increases overall fitness of an organism in a
periodic environment and it is a viable alternative to bet-hedging provided the
error in anticipation is small.


Characterizing Product Lifecycle in Online Marketing: Sales, Trust,
  Revenue, and Competition Modeling

  Recent researches have seen an upsurge in the analysis of consumer reviews.
Although, several dimensions have been explored, less is known on the temporal
dynamics of events that happen over the lifecycle of online products. What are
the dominant sales patterns? How are they affected by review count, rating,
helpfulness and sentiment? How is trust characterized and what are its effects
on sales and revenue? What happens during a market competition? When does a
takeover/recovery happen and by what percentage do sales increase on a
takeover? This work aims to answer these fundamental research questions based
on a sales time-series analysis of reviews of over 1 million products from
Amazon.com. We discover novel temporal patterns of sales and interesting
correlations of sales with the ratings. We find that trust and helpfulness are
important for higher revenue. Based on the analyses, we propose a model to
forecast sales that significantly outperforms other baselines. We then explore
the phenomena of market competition. Particularly, we characterize different
factors that govern survival/death of a product under competition and a model
for competition forecast. Experimental results on large-scale reviews
demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approaches.


ENWalk: Learning Network Features for Spam Detection in Twitter

  Social medias are increasing their influence with the vast public information
leading to their active use for marketing by the companies and organizations.
Such marketing promotions are difficult to identify unlike the traditional
medias like TV and newspaper. So, it is very much important to identify the
promoters in the social media. Although, there are active ongoing researches,
existing approaches are far from solving the problem. To identify such
imposters, it is very much important to understand their strategies of social
circle creation and dynamics of content posting. Are there any specific spammer
types? How successful are each types? We analyze these questions in the light
of social relationships in Twitter. Our analyses discover two types of spammers
and their relationships with the dynamics of content posts. Our results
discover novel dynamics of spamming which are intuitive and arguable. We
propose ENWalk, a framework to detect the spammers by learning the feature
representations of the users in the social media. We learn the feature
representations using the random walks biased on the spam dynamics.
Experimental results on large-scale twitter network and the corresponding
tweets show the effectiveness of our approach that outperforms the existing
approaches


Satirical News Detection and Analysis using Attention Mechanism and
  Linguistic Features

  Satirical news is considered to be entertainment, but it is potentially
deceptive and harmful. Despite the embedded genre in the article, not everyone
can recognize the satirical cues and therefore believe the news as true news.
We observe that satirical cues are often reflected in certain paragraphs rather
than the whole document. Existing works only consider document-level features
to detect the satire, which could be limited. We consider paragraph-level
linguistic features to unveil the satire by incorporating neural network and
attention mechanism. We investigate the difference between paragraph-level
features and document-level features, and analyze them on a large satirical
news dataset. The evaluation shows that the proposed model detects satirical
news effectively and reveals what features are important at which level.


Experiments with Neural Networks for Small and Large Scale Authorship
  Verification

  We propose two models for a special case of authorship verification problem.
The task is to investigate whether the two documents of a given pair are
written by the same author. We consider the authorship verification problem for
both small and large scale datasets. The underlying small-scale problem has two
main challenges: First, the authors of the documents are unknown to us because
no previous writing samples are available. Second, the two documents are short
(a few hundred to a few thousand words) and may differ considerably in the
genre and/or topic. To solve it we propose transformation encoder to transform
one document of the pair into the other. This document transformation generates
a loss which is used as a recognizable feature to verify if the authors of the
pair are identical. For the large scale problem where various authors are
engaged and more examples are available with larger length, a parallel
recurrent neural network is proposed. It compares the language models of the
two documents. We evaluate our methods on various types of datasets including
Authorship Identification datasets of PAN competition, Amazon reviews, and
machine learning articles. Experiments show that both methods achieve stable
and competitive performance compared to the baselines.


Aspect Specific Opinion Expression Extraction using Attention based
  LSTM-CRF Network

  Opinion phrase extraction is one of the key tasks in fine-grained sentiment
analysis. While opinion expressions could be generic subjective expressions,
aspect specific opinion expressions contain both the aspect as well as the
opinion expression within the original sentence context. In this work, we
formulate the task as an instance of token-level sequence labeling. When
multiple aspects are present in a sentence, detection of opinion phrase
boundary becomes difficult and label of each word depend not only upon the
surrounding words but also with the concerned aspect. We propose a neural
network architecture with bidirectional LSTM (Bi-LSTM) and a novel attention
mechanism. Bi-LSTM layer learns the various sequential pattern among the words
without requiring any hand-crafted features. The attention mechanism captures
the importance of context words on a particular aspect opinion expression when
multiple aspects are present in a sentence via location and content based
memory. A Conditional Random Field (CRF) model is incorporated in the final
layer to explicitly model the dependencies among the output labels.
Experimental results on Hotel dataset from Tripadvisor.com showed that our
approach outperformed several state-of-the-art baselines.


Modeling Review Spam Using Temporal Patterns and Co-bursting Behaviors

  Online reviews play a crucial role in helping consumers evaluate and compare
products and services. However, review hosting sites are often targeted by
opinion spamming. In recent years, many such sites have put a great deal of
effort in building effective review filtering systems to detect fake reviews
and to block malicious accounts. Thus, fraudsters or spammers now turn to
compromise, purchase or even raise reputable accounts to write fake reviews.
Based on the analysis of a real-life dataset from a review hosting site
(dianping.com), we discovered that reviewers' posting rates are bimodal and the
transitions between different states can be utilized to differentiate spammers
from genuine reviewers. Inspired by these findings, we propose a two-mode
Labeled Hidden Markov Model to detect spammers. Experimental results show that
our model significantly outperforms supervised learning using linguistic and
behavioral features in identifying spammers. Furthermore, we found that when a
product has a burst of reviews, many spammers are likely to be actively
involved in writing reviews to the product as well as to many other products.
We then propose a novel co-bursting network for detecting spammer groups. The
co-bursting network enables us to produce more accurate spammer groups than the
current state-of-the-art reviewer-product (co-reviewing) network.


Interaction of light and semiconductor can generate quantum states
  required for solid state quantum computing: Entangled, steered and other
  nonclassical states

  Proposals for solid state quantum computing are extremely promising as they
can be used to built room temperature quantum computers. If such a quantum
computer is ever built it would require in-built sources of nonclassical states
required for various quantum information processing tasks. Possibilities of
generation of such nonclassical states are investigated here for a physical
system composed of a monochromatic light coupled to a two-band semiconductor
with direct band gap. The model Hamiltonian includes both photon-exciton and
exciton-exciton interactions. Time evolution of the relevant bosonic operators
are obtained analytically by using a perturbative technique that provides
operator solution for the coupled Heisenberg's equations of motion
corresponding to the system Hamiltonian. The bosonic operators are subsequently
used to study the possibilities of observing single and two mode squeezing and
antibunching after interaction in the relevant modes of light and
semiconductor. Further, entanglement between the exciton and photon modes is
reported. Finally, the nonclassical effects have been studied numerically for
the open quantum system scenario. In this situation, the nonlocal correlations
between two modes are shown to violate EPR steering inequality. The observed
nonclassical features, induced due to exciton-exciton pair interaction, can be
controlled by the phase of input field and the correlations between two modes
are shown to enhance due to nonclassicality in the input field.


