Synergistic Security for the Industrial Internet of Things: Integrating
  Redundancy, Diversity, and Hardening

  As the Industrial Internet of Things (IIot) becomes more prevalent in
critical application domains, ensuring security and resilience in the face of
cyber-attacks is becoming an issue of paramount importance. Cyber-attacks
against critical infrastructures, for example, against smart water-distribution
and transportation systems, pose serious threats to public health and safety.
Owing to the severity of these threats, a variety of security techniques are
available. However, no single technique can address the whole spectrum of
cyber-attacks that may be launched by a determined and resourceful attacker. In
light of this, we consider a multi-pronged approach for designing secure and
resilient IIoT systems, which integrates redundancy, diversity, and hardening
techniques. We introduce a framework for quantifying cyber-security risks and
optimizing IIoT design by determining security investments in redundancy,
diversity, and hardening. To demonstrate the applicability of our framework, we
present two case studies in water distribution and transportation a case study
in water-distribution systems. Our numerical evaluation shows that integrating
redundancy, diversity, and hardening can lead to reduced security risk at the
same cost.


VeriSolid: Correct-by-Design Smart Contracts for Ethereum

  The adoption of blockchain based distributed ledgers is growing fast due to
their ability to provide reliability, integrity, and auditability without
trusted entities. One of the key capabilities of these emerging platforms is
the ability to create self-enforcing smart contracts. However, the development
of smart contracts has proven to be error-prone in practice, and as a result,
contracts deployed on public platforms are often riddled with security
vulnerabilities. This issue is exacerbated by the design of these platforms,
which forbids updating contract code and rolling back malicious transactions.
In light of this, it is crucial to ensure that a smart contract is secure
before deploying it and trusting it with significant amounts of cryptocurrency.
To this end, we introduce the VeriSolid framework for the formal verification
of contracts that are specified using a transition-system based model with
rigorous operational semantics. Our model-based approach allows developers to
reason about and verify contract behavior at a high level of abstraction.
VeriSolid allows the generation of Solidity code from the verified models,
which enables the correct-by-design development of smart contracts.


Detection and Mitigation of Attacks on Transportation Networks as a
  Multi-Stage Security Game

  In recent years, state-of-the-art traffic-control devices have evolved from
standalone hardware to networked smart devices. Smart traffic control enables
operators to decrease traffic congestion and environmental impact by acquiring
real-time traffic data and changing traffic signals from fixed to adaptive
schedules. However, these capabilities have inadvertently exposed traffic
control to a wide range of cyber-attacks, which adversaries can easily mount
through wireless networks or even through the Internet. Indeed, recent studies
have found that a large number of traffic signals that are deployed in practice
suffer from exploitable vulnerabilities, which adversaries may use to take
control of the devices. Thanks to hardware-based failsafes, adversaries cannot
cause traffic accidents directly by setting compromised signals to dangerous
configurations. Nonetheless, an adversary could cause disastrous traffic
congestion by changing the schedule of compromised traffic signals, thereby
effectively crippling the transportation network. To provide theoretical
foundations for the protection of transportation networks from these attacks,
we introduce a game-theoretic model of launching, detecting, and mitigating
attacks that tamper with traffic-signal schedules. We show that finding optimal
strategies is a computationally challenging problem, and we propose efficient
heuristic algorithms for finding near optimal strategies. We also introduce a
Gaussian-process based anomaly detector, which can alert operators to ongoing
attacks. Finally, we evaluate our algorithms and the proposed detector using
numerical experiments based on the SUMO traffic simulator.


Optimal Detection of Faulty Traffic Sensors Used in Route Planning

  In a smart city, real-time traffic sensors may be deployed for various
applications, such as route planning. Unfortunately, sensors are prone to
failures, which result in erroneous traffic data. Erroneous data can adversely
affect applications such as route planning, and can cause increased travel
time. To minimize the impact of sensor failures, we must detect them promptly
and accurately. However, typical detection algorithms may lead to a large
number of false positives (i.e., false alarms) and false negatives (i.e.,
missed detections), which can result in suboptimal route planning. In this
paper, we devise an effective detector for identifying faulty traffic sensors
using a prediction model based on Gaussian Processes. Further, we present an
approach for computing the optimal parameters of the detector which minimize
losses due to false-positive and false-negative errors. We also characterize
critical sensors, whose failure can have high impact on the route planning
application. Finally, we implement our method and evaluate it numerically using
a real-world dataset and the route planning platform OpenTripPlanner.


On the Economics of Ransomware

  While recognized as a theoretical and practical concept for over 20 years,
only now ransomware has taken centerstage as one of the most prevalent
cybercrimes. Various reports demonstrate the enormous burden placed on
companies, which have to grapple with the ongoing attack waves. At the same
time, our strategic understanding of the threat and the adversarial interaction
between organizations and cybercriminals perpetrating ransomware attacks is
lacking.
  In this paper, we develop, to the best of our knowledge, the first
game-theoretic model of the ransomware ecosystem. Our model captures a
multi-stage scenario involving organizations from different industry sectors
facing a sophisticated ransomware attacker. We place particular emphasis on the
decision of companies to invest in backup technologies as part of a contingency
plan, and the economic incentives to pay a ransom if impacted by an attack. We
further study to which degree comprehensive industry-wide backup investments
can serve as a deterrent for ongoing attacks.


Privacy-Preserving Platform for Transactive Energy Systems

  Transactive energy systems (TES) are emerging as a transformative solution
for the problems faced by distribution system operators due to an increase in
the use of distributed energy resources and a rapid acceleration in renewable
energy generation. These, on one hand, pose a decentralized power system
controls problem, requiring strategic microgrid control to maintain stability
for the community and for the utility. On the other hand, they require robust
financial markets operating on distributed software platforms that preserve
privacy. In this paper, we describe the implementation of a novel,
blockchain-based transactive energy system. We outline the key requirements and
motivation of this platform, describe the lessons learned, and provide a
description of key architectural components of this system.


On the Design of Communication and Transaction Anonymity in
  Blockchain-Based Transactive Microgrids

  Transactive microgrids are emerging as a transformative solution for the
problems faced by distribution system operators due to an increase in the use
of distributed energy resources and a rapid acceleration in renewable energy
generation, such as wind and solar power. Distributed ledgers have recently
found widespread interest in this domain due to their ability to provide
transactional integrity across decentralized computing nodes. However, the
existing state of the art has not focused on the privacy preservation
requirement of these energy systems -- the transaction level data can provide
much greater insights into a prosumer's behavior compared to smart meter data.
There are specific safety requirements in transactive microgrids to ensure the
stability of the grid and to control the load. To fulfil these requirements,
the distribution system operator needs transaction information from the grid,
which poses a further challenge to the privacy-goals. This problem is made
worse by requirement for off-blockchain communication in these networks. In
this paper, we extend a recently developed trading workflow called PETra and
describe our solution for communication and transactional anonymity.


PlaTIBART: a Platform for Transactive IoT Blockchain Applications with
  Repeatable Testing

  With the advent of blockchain-enabled IoT applications, there is an increased
need for related software patterns, middleware concepts, and testing practices
to ensure adequate quality and productivity. IoT and blockchain each provide
different design goals, concepts, and practices that must be integrated,
including the distributed actor model and fault tolerance from IoT and
transactive information integrity over untrustworthy sources from blockchain.
Both IoT and blockchain are emerging technologies and both lack codified
patterns and practices for development of applications when combined. This
paper describes PlaTIBART, which is a platform for transactive IoT blockchain
applications with repeatable testing that combines the Actor pattern (which is
a commonly used model of computation in IoT) together with a custom Domain
Specific Language (DSL) and test network management tools. We show how
PlaTIBART has been applied to develop, test, and analyze fault-tolerant IoT
blockchain applications.


Providing Privacy, Safety, and Security in IoT-Based Transactive Energy
  Systems using Distributed Ledgers

  Power grids are undergoing major changes due to rapid growth in renewable
energy resources and improvements in battery technology. While these changes
enhance sustainability and efficiency, they also create significant management
challenges as the complexity of power systems increases. To tackle these
challenges, decentralized Internet-of-Things (IoT) solutions are emerging,
which arrange local communities into transactive microgrids. Within a
transactive microgrid, "prosumers" (i.e., consumers with energy generation and
storage capabilities) can trade energy with each other, thereby smoothing the
load on the main grid using local supply. It is hard, however, to provide
security, safety, and privacy in a decentralized and transactive energy system.
On the one hand, prosumers' personal information must be protected from their
trade partners and the system operator. On the other hand, the system must be
protected from careless or malicious trading, which could destabilize the
entire grid. This paper describes Privacy-preserving Energy Transactions
(PETra), which is a secure and safe solution for transactive microgrids that
enables consumers to trade energy without sacrificing their privacy. PETra
builds on distributed ledgers, such as blockchains, and provides anonymity for
communication, bidding, and trading.


Designing Secure Ethereum Smart Contracts: A Finite State Machine Based
  Approach

  The adoption of blockchain-based distributed computation platforms is growing
fast. Some of these platforms, such as Ethereum, provide support for
implementing smart contracts, which are envisioned to have novel applications
in a broad range of areas, including finance and Internet-of-Things. However, a
significant number of smart contracts deployed in practice suffer from security
vulnerabilities, which enable malicious users to steal assets from a contract
or to cause damage. Vulnerabilities present a serious issue since contracts may
handle financial assets of considerable value, and contract bugs are
non-fixable by design. To help developers create more secure smart contracts,
we introduce FSolidM, a framework rooted in rigorous semantics for designing
con- tracts as Finite State Machines (FSM). We present a tool for creating FSM
on an easy-to-use graphical interface and for automatically generating Ethereum
contracts. Further, we introduce a set of design patterns, which we implement
as plugins that developers can easily add to their contracts to enhance
security and functionality.


Tool Demonstration: FSolidM for Designing Secure Ethereum Smart
  Contracts

  Blockchain-based distributed computing platforms enable the trusted execution
of computation - defined in the form of smart contracts - without trusted
agents. Smart contracts are envisioned to have a variety of applications,
ranging from financial to IoT asset tracking. Unfortunately, the development of
smart contracts has proven to be extremely error prone. In practice, contracts
are riddled with security vulnerabilities comprising a critical issue since
bugs are by design non-fixable and contracts may handle financial assets of
significant value. To facilitate the development of secure smart contracts, we
have created the FSolidM framework, which allows developers to define contracts
as finite state machines (FSMs) with rigorous and clear semantics. FSolidM
provides an easy-to-use graphical editor for specifying FSMs, a code generator
for creating Ethereum smart contracts, and a set of plugins that developers may
add to their FSMs to enhance security and functionality.


SolidWorx: A Resilient and Trustworthy Transactive Platform for Smart
  and Connected Communities

  Internet of Things and data sciences are fueling the development of
innovative solutions for various applications in Smart and Connected
Communities (SCC). These applications provide participants with the capability
to exchange not only data but also resources, which raises the concerns of
integrity, trust, and above all the need for fair and optimal solutions to the
problem of resource allocation. This exchange of information and resources
leads to a problem where the stakeholders of the system may have limited trust
in each other. Thus, collaboratively reaching consensus on when, how, and who
should access certain resources becomes problematic. This paper presents
SolidWorx, a blockchain-based platform that provides key mechanisms required
for arbitrating resource consumption across different SCC applications in a
domain-agnostic manner. For example, it introduces and implements a
hybrid-solver pattern, where complex optimization computation is handled
off-blockchain while solution validation is performed by a smart contract. To
ensure correctness, the smart contract of SolidWorx is generated and verified.


Game-Theoretic Model of Incentivizing Privacy-Aware Users to Consent to
  Location Tracking

  Nowadays, mobile users have a vast number of applications and services at
their disposal. Each of these might impose some privacy threats on users'
"Personally Identifiable Information" (PII). Location privacy is a crucial part
of PII, and as such, privacy-aware users wish to maximize it. This privacy can
be, for instance, threatened by a company, which collects users' traces and
shares them with third parties. To maximize their location privacy, users can
decide to get offline so that the company cannot localize their devices. The
longer a user stays connected to a network, the more services he might receive,
but his location privacy decreases. In this paper, we analyze the trade-off
between location privacy, the level of services that a user experiences, and
the profit of the company. To this end, we formulate a Stackelberg Bayesian
game between the User (follower) and the Company (leader). We present
theoretical results characterizing the equilibria of the game. To the best of
our knowledge, our work is the first to model the economically rational
decision-making of the service provider (i.e., the Company) in conjunction with
the rational decision-making of users who wish to protect their location
privacy. To evaluate the performance of our approach, we have used real-data
from a testbed, and we have also shown that the game-theoretic strategy of the
Company outperforms non-strategic methods. Finally, we have considered
different User privacy types, and have determined the service level that
incentivizes the User to stay connected as long as possible.


Scheduling Resource-Bounded Monitoring Devices for Event Detection and
  Isolation in Networks

  In networked systems, monitoring devices such as sensors are typically
deployed to monitor various target locations. Targets are the points in the
physical space at which events of some interest, such as random faults or
attacks, can occur. Most often, these devices have limited energy supplies, and
they can operate for a limited duration. As a result, energy-efficient
monitoring of various target locations through a set of monitoring devices with
limited energy supplies is a crucial problem in networked systems. In this
paper, we study optimal scheduling of monitoring devices to maximize network
coverage for detecting and isolating events on targets for a given network
lifetime. The monitoring devices considered could remain active only for a
fraction of the overall network lifetime. We formulate the problem of
scheduling of monitoring devices as a graph labeling problem, which unlike
other existing solutions, allows us to directly utilize the underlying network
structure to explore the trade-off between coverage and network lifetime. In
this direction, first we propose a greedy heuristic to solve the graph labeling
problem, and then provide a game-theoretic solution to achieve near optimal
graph labeling. Moreover, the proposed setup can be used to simultaneously
solve the scheduling and placement of monitoring devices, which yields improved
performance as compared to separately solving the placement and scheduling
problems. Finally, we illustrate our results on various networks, including
real-world water distribution networks.


An Economic Study of the Effect of Android Platform Fragmentation on
  Security Updates

  Vendors in the Android ecosystem typically customize their devices by
modifying Android Open Source Project (AOSP) code, adding in-house developed
proprietary software, and pre-installing third-party applications. However,
research has documented how various security problems are associated with this
customization process.
  We develop a model of the Android ecosystem utilizing the concepts of game
theory and product differentiation to capture the competition involving two
vendors customizing the AOSP platform. We show how the vendors are incentivized
to differentiate their products from AOSP and from each other, and how prices
are shaped through this differentiation process. We also consider two types of
consumers: security-conscious consumers who understand and care about security,
and na\"ive consumers who lack the ability to correctly evaluate security
properties of vendor-supplied Android products or simply ignore security. It is
evident that vendors shirk on security investments in the latter case.
  Regulators such as the U.S. Federal Trade Commission have sanctioned Android
vendors for underinvestment in security, but the exact effects of these
sanctions are difficult to disentangle with empirical data. Here, we model the
impact of a regulator-imposed fine that incentivizes vendors to match a minimum
security standard. Interestingly, we show how product prices will decrease for
the same cost of customization in the presence of a fine, or a higher level of
regulator-imposed minimum security.


Get Your Workload in Order: Game Theoretic Prioritization of Database
  Auditing

  For enhancing the privacy protections of databases, where the increasing
amount of detailed personal data is stored and processed, multiple mechanisms
have been developed, such as audit logging and alert triggers, which notify
administrators about suspicious activities; however, the two main limitations
in common are: 1) the volume of such alerts is often substantially greater than
the capabilities of resource-constrained organizations, and 2) strategic
attackers may disguise their actions or carefully choosing which records they
touch, making incompetent the statistical detection models. For solving them,
we introduce a novel approach to database auditing that explicitly accounts for
adversarial behavior by 1) prioritizing the order in which types of alerts are
investigated and 2) providing an upper bound on how much resource to allocate
for each type. We model the interaction between a database auditor and
potential attackers as a Stackelberg game in which the auditor chooses an
auditing policy and attackers choose which records to target. A corresponding
approach combining linear programming, column generation, and heuristic search
is proposed to derive an auditing policy. For testing the policy-searching
performance, a publicly available credit card application dataset are adopted,
on which it shows that our methods produce high-quality mixed strategies as
database audit policies, and our general approach significantly outperforms
non-game-theoretic baselines.


TRANSAX: A Blockchain-based Decentralized Forward-Trading Energy
  Exchange for Transactive Microgrids

  Power grids are undergoing major changes due to rapid growth in renewable
energy and improvements in battery technology. Prompted by the increasing
complexity of power systems, decentralized IoT solutions are emerging, which
arrange local communities into transactive microgrids. The core functionality
of these solutions is to provide mechanisms for matching producers with
consumers while ensuring system safety. However, there are multiple challenges
that these solutions still face: privacy, trust, and resilience. The privacy
challenge arises because the time series of production and consumption data for
each participant is sensitive and may be used to infer personal information.
Trust is an issue because a producer or consumer can renege on the promised
energy transfer. Providing resilience is challenging due to the possibility of
failures in the infrastructure that is required to support these market based
solutions. In this paper, we develop a rigorous solution for transactive
microgrids that addresses all three challenges by providing an innovative
combination of MILP solvers, smart contracts, and publish-subscribe middleware
within a framework of a novel distributed application platform, called
Resilient Information Architecture Platform for Smart Grid. Towards this
purpose, we describe the key architectural concepts, including fault tolerance,
and show the trade-off between market efficiency and resource requirements.


Augmenting Learning Components for Safety in Resource Constrained
  Autonomous Robots

  Learning enabled components (LECs) trained using data-driven algorithms are
increasingly being used in autonomous robots commonly found in factories,
hospitals, and educational laboratories. However, these LECs do not provide any
safety guarantees, and testing them is challenging. In this paper, we introduce
a framework that performs weighted simplex strategy based supervised safety
control, resource management and confidence estimation of autonomous robots.
Specifically, we describe two weighted simplex strategies: (a) simple weighted
simplex strategy (SW-Simplex) that computes a weighted controller output by
comparing the decisions between a safety supervisor and an LEC, and (b) a
context-sensitive weighted simplex strategy (CSW-Simplex) that computes a
context-aware weighted controller output. We use reinforcement learning to
learn the contextual weights. We also introduce a system monitor that uses the
current state information and a Bayesian network model learned from past data
to estimate the probability of the robotic system staying in the safe working
region. To aid resource constrained robots in performing complex computations
of these weighted simplex strategies, we describe a resource manager that
offloads tasks to an available fog nodes. The paper also describes a hardware
testbed called DeepNNCar, which is a low cost resource-constrained RC car,
built to perform autonomous driving. Using the hardware, we show that both
SW-Simplex and CSW-Simplex have 40\% and 60\% fewer safety violations, while
demonstrating higher optimized speed during indoor driving
\textbf{($\sim\,0.40\,m/s$)} than the original system (using only LECs).


Cyber-Physical Simulation Platform for Security Assessment of
  Transactive Energy Systems

  Transactive energy systems (TES) are emerging as a transformative solution
for the problems that distribution system operators face due to an increase in
the use of distributed energy resources and rapid growth in scalability of
managing active distribution system (ADS). On the one hand, these changes pose
a decentralized power system control problem, requiring strategic control to
maintain reliability and resiliency for the community and for the utility. On
the other hand, they require robust financial markets while allowing
participation from diverse prosumers. To support the computing and flexibility
requirements of TES while preserving privacy and security, distributed software
platforms are required. In this paper, we enable the study and analysis of
security concerns by developing Transactive Energy Security Simulation Testbed
(TESST), a TES testbed for simulating various cyber attacks. In this work, the
testbed is used for TES simulation with centralized clearing market,
highlighting weaknesses in a centralized system. Additionally, we present a
blockchain enabled decentralized market solution supported by distributed
computing for TES, which on one hand can alleviate some of the problems that we
identify, but on the other hand, may introduce newer issues. Future study of
these differing paradigms is necessary and will continue as we develop our
security simulation testbed.


Optimal Thresholds for Anomaly-Based Intrusion Detection in Dynamical
  Environments

  In cyber-physical systems, malicious and resourceful attackers could
penetrate the system through cyber means and cause significant physical damage.
Consequently, detection of such attacks becomes integral towards making these
systems resilient to attacks. To achieve this objective, intrusion detection
systems (IDS) that are able to detect malicious behavior can be deployed.
However, practical IDS are imperfect and sometimes they may produce false
alarms for a normal system behavior. Since alarms need to be investigated for
any potential damage, a large number of false alarms may increase the
operational costs significantly. Thus, IDS need to be configured properly, as
oversensitive IDS could detect attacks early but at the cost of a higher number
of false alarms. Similarly, IDS with low sensitivity could reduce the false
alarms while increasing the time to detect the attacks. The configuration of
IDS to strike the right balance between time to detecting attacks and the rate
of false positives is a challenging task, especially in dynamic environments,
in which the damage incurred by a successful attack is time-varying.
  In this paper, we study the problem of finding optimal detection thresholds
for anomaly-based detectors implemented in dynamical systems in the face of
strategic attacks. We formulate the problem as an attacker-defender security
game, and determine thresholds for the detector to achieve an optimal trade-off
between the detection delay and the false positive rates. In this direction,
first, we provide an algorithm that computes optimal fixed threshold that
remains fixed throughout. Second, we allow detector's threshold to change with
time to further minimize the defender's loss and provide an algorithm to
compute time-varying thresholds, which we call adaptive thresholds. Finally, we
numerically evaluate our results using a water distribution network as a
case-study.


