The Size Distribution of Kuiper Belt Objects

  We describe analytical and numerical collisional evolution calculations for
the size distribution of icy bodies in the Kuiper Belt. For a wide range of
bulk properties, initial masses, and orbital parameters, our results yield
power-law cumulative size distributions, N_C propto r^{-q}, with q_L = 3.5 for
large bodies with radii of 10-100 km, and q_s = 2.5-3 for small bodies with
radii lesss than 0.1-1 km. The transition between the two power laws occurs at
a break radius of 1-30 km. The break radius is more sensitive to the initial
mass in the Kuiper Belt and the amount of stirring by Neptune than the bulk
properties of individual Kuiper Belt objects (KBOs). Comparisons with
observations indicate that most models can explain the observed sky surface
density of KBOs for red magnitudes, R = 22-27. For R < 22 and R > 28, the model
surface density is sensitive to the amount of stirring by Neptune, suggesting
that the size distribution of icy planets in the outer solar system provides
independent constraints on the formation of Neptune.


Complete projective connections

  The first examples of complete projective connections are uncovered: normal
projective connections on surfaces whose geodesics are all closed and embedded
are complete, as are normal projective connections induced from complete affine
connections with slowly decaying positive Ricci curvature.


An existing, ecologically-successful genus of collectively intelligent
  artificial creatures

  People sometimes worry about the Singularity [Vinge, 1993; Kurzweil, 2005],
or about the world being taken over by artificially intelligent robots. I
believe the risks of these are very small. However, few people recognize that
we already share our world with artificial creatures that participate as
intelligent agents in our society: corporations. Our planet is inhabited by two
distinct kinds of intelligent beings --- individual humans and corporate
entities --- whose natures and interests are intimately linked. To co-exist
well, we need to find ways to define the rights and responsibilities of both
individual humans and corporate entities, and to find ways to ensure that
corporate entities behave as responsible members of society.


Stellar encounters as the origin of distant solar system objects in
  highly eccentric orbits

  The discovery of Sedna places new constraints on the origin and evolution of
our solar system. Here we investigate the possibility that a close encounter
with another star produced the observed edge of the Kuiper belt, at roughly 50
AU, and the highly elliptical orbit of Sedna. We show that a passing star
probably scattered Sedna from the Kuiper Belt into its observed orbit. The
likelihood that a planet at 60-80 AU can be scattered into Sedna's orbit is
roughly 50%; this estimate depends critically on the geometry of the flyby.
Even more interesting, though, is the roughly 10% chance that Sedna was
captured from the outer disk of the passing star. Most captures have very high
inclination orbits; detection of these objects would confirm the presence of
extrasolar planets in our own Solar System.


Formation and Collisional Evolution of Kuiper Belt Objects

  This chapter summarizes analytic theory and numerical calculations for the
formation and collisional evolution of KBOs at 20--150 AU. We describe the main
predictions of a baseline self-stirring model and show how dynamical
perturbations from a stellar flyby or stirring by a giant planet modify the
evolution. Although robust comparisons between observations and theory require
better KBO statistics and more comprehensive calculations, the data are broadly
consistent with KBO formation in a massive disk followed by substantial
collisional grinding and dynamical ejection. However, there are important
problems reconciling the results of coagulation and dynamical calculations.
Contrasting our current understanding of the evolution of KBOs and asteroids
suggests that additional observational constraints, such as the identification
of more dynamical families of KBOs (like the 2003 EL61 family), would provide
additional information on the relative roles of collisional grinding and
dynamical ejection in the Kuiper Belt. The uncertainties also motivate
calculations that combine collisional and dynamical evolution, a `unified'
calculation that should give us a better picture of KBO formation and
evolution.


Levy Flights of Binary Orbits due to Impulsive Encounters

  We examine the evolution of an almost circular Keplerian orbit interacting
with unbound perturbers. We calculate the change in eccentricity and angular
momentum that results from a single encounter, assuming the timescale for the
interaction is shorter than the orbital period. The orbital perturbations are
incorporated into a Boltzmann equation that allows for eccentricity
dissipation. We present an analytic solution to the Boltzmann equation that
describes the distribution of orbital eccentricity and relative inclination as
a function of time. The eccentricity and inclination of the binary do not
evolve according to a normal random walk but perform a Levy flight. The slope
of the mass spectrum of perturbers dictates whether close gravitational
scatterings are more important than distant tidal ones. When close scatterings
are important, the mass spectrum sets the slope of the eccentricity and
inclination distribution functions. We use this general framework to understand
the eccentricities of several Kuiper belt systems: Pluto, 2003 EL 61, and Eris.
We use the model of Tholen et al (2007) to separate the non-Keplerian
components of the orbits of Pluto's outer moons Nix and Hydra from the motion
excited by interactions with other Kuiper belt objects. Our distribution is
consistent with the observations of Nix, Hydra, and the satellites of 2003 EL
61 and Eris. We address applications of this work to objects outside of the
solar system, such as extrasolar planets around their stars and millisecond
pulsars.


Development of the Arizona Robotic Telescope Network

  The Arizona Robotic Telescope Network (ARTN) project is a long term effort to
develop a system of telescopes to carry out a flexible program of PI observing,
survey projects, and time domain astrophysics including monitoring, rapid
response, and transient/target-of-opportunity followup. Steward Observatory
operates and shares in several 1-3m class telescopes with quality sites and
instrumentation, largely operated in classical modes. Science programs suited
to these telescopes are limited by scheduling flexibility and people-power of
available observers. Our goal is to adapt these facilities for multiple
co-existing queued programs, interrupt capability, remote/robotic operation,
and delivery of reduced data. In the long term, planning for the LSST era, we
envision an automated system coordinating across multiple telescopes and sites,
where alerts can trigger followup, classification, and triggering of further
observations if required, such as followup imaging that can trigger
spectroscopy. We are updating telescope control systems and software to
implement this system in stages, beginning with the Kuiper 61'' and Vatican
Observatory 1.8-m telescopes. The Kuiper 61'' and its Mont4K camera can now be
controlled and queue-scheduled by the RTS2 observatory control software, and
operated from a remote room at Steward. We discuss science and technical
requirements for ARTN, and some of the challenges in adapting heterogenous
legacy facilities, scheduling, data pipelines, and maintaining capabilities for
a diverse user base.


Modeling the Formation of the Family of the Dwarf Planet Haumea

  The dwarf planet (136108) Haumea has an intriguing combination of unique
physical properties: near-breakup spin, two regular satellites, and an
unexpectedly compact family. While these properties indicate formation by
collision, there is no self-consistent and reasonably probable formation
hypothesis that can connect the unusually rapid spin and the low relative
velocities of Haumea family members ("Haumeans"). We explore and test the
proposed formation hypotheses (catastrophic collision, graze-and-merge, and
satellite collision). We flexibly parameterize the properties of the collision
(e.g., the collision location) and use simple models for the three-dimensional
velocity ejection field expected from each model to generate simulated
families. These are compared to observed Kuiper Belt Objects using Bayesian
parameter inference, including a mixture model that allows for interlopers from
the background population. After testing our methodology, we find the best
match to the observed Haumeans is an isotropic ejection field with a typical
velocity of 150 m s$^{-1}$. The graze-and-merge and satellite collision
hypotheses are disfavored. Including these constraints, we discuss the
formation hypotheses in detail, including variations, some of which are tested.
Some new hypotheses are proposed (a cratering collision and a collision where
Haumea's upper layers are "missing") and scrutinized. We do not identify a
satisfactory formation hypothesis, but we do propose several avenues of
additional investigation. In addition, we identify many new candidate Haumeans
and dynamically confirm 7 of them as consistent with the observed family. We
confirm that Haumeans have a shallow size distribution and discuss implications
for the identification of new Haumeans.


Scalability and Resilience of Software-Defined Networking: An Overview

  Software-Defined Networking (SDN) allows to control the available network
resources by an intelligent and centralized authority in order to optimize
traffic flows in a flexible manner. However, centralized control may face
scalability issues when the network size or the number of traffic flows
increases. Also, a centralized controller may form a single point of failure,
thereby affecting the network resilience.
  This article provides an overview of SDN that focuses on (1) scalability
concerning the increased control overhead faced by a central controller, and
(2) resiliency in terms of protection against controller failure, network
topology failure and security in terms of malicious attacks.


A 40 Myr Old Gaseous Circumstellar Disk at 49 Ceti: Massive CO-Rich
  Comet Clouds at Young A-Type Stars

  The gaseous molecular disk that orbits the main sequence A-type star 49 Ceti
has been known since 1995, but the stellar age and the origin of the observed
carbon monoxide molecules have been unknown. We now identify 49 Ceti as a
member of the 40 Myr old Argus Association and present a colliding comet model
to explain the high CO concentrations seen at 49 Ceti and the 30 Myr old A-type
star HD 21997. The model suggests that massive -- 400 Earth mass -- analogs of
the Sun's Kuiper Belt are in orbit about some A-type stars, that these large
masses are composed primarily of comet-like objects, and that these objects are
rich in CO and perhaps also CO2. We identify additional early-type members of
the Argus Association and the Tucana/Horologium and Columba Associations; some
of these stars display excess mid-infrared emission as measured with the
Widefield Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE).


A Nonlinear Constrained Optimization Framework for Comfortable and
  Customizable Motion Planning of Nonholonomic Mobile Robots - Part II

  In this series of papers, we present a motion planning framework for planning
comfortable and customizable motion of nonholonomic mobile robots such as
intelligent wheelchairs and autonomous cars. In Part I, we presented the
mathematical foundation of our framework, where we model motion discomfort as a
weighted cost functional and define comfortable motion planning as a nonlinear
constrained optimization problem of computing trajectories that minimize this
discomfort given the appropriate boundary conditions and constraints.
  In this paper, we discretize the infinite-dimensional optimization problem
using conforming finite elements. We describe shape functions to handle
different kinds of boundary conditions and the choice of unknowns to obtain a
sparse Hessian matrix. We also describe in detail how any trajectory
computation problem can have infinitely many locally optimal solutions and our
method of handling them. Additionally, since we have a nonlinear and
constrained problem, computation of high quality initial guesses is crucial for
efficient solution. We show how to compute them.


Ethical Considerations in Artificial Intelligence Courses

  The recent surge in interest in ethics in artificial intelligence may leave
many educators wondering how to address moral, ethical, and philosophical
issues in their AI courses. As instructors we want to develop curriculum that
not only prepares students to be artificial intelligence practitioners, but
also to understand the moral, ethical, and philosophical impacts that
artificial intelligence will have on society. In this article we provide
practical case studies and links to resources for use by AI educators. We also
provide concrete suggestions on how to integrate AI ethics into a general
artificial intelligence course and how to teach a stand-alone artificial
intelligence ethics course.


OSS (Outer Solar System): A fundamental and planetary physics mission to
  Neptune, Triton and the Kuiper Belt

  The present OSS mission continues a long and bright tradition by associating
the communities of fundamental physics and planetary sciences in a single
mission with ambitious goals in both domains. OSS is an M-class mission to
explore the Neptune system almost half a century after flyby of the Voyager 2
spacecraft. Several discoveries were made by Voyager 2, including the Great
Dark Spot (which has now disappeared) and Triton's geysers. Voyager 2 revealed
the dynamics of Neptune's atmosphere and found four rings and evidence of ring
arcs above Neptune. Benefiting from a greatly improved instrumentation, it will
result in a striking advance in the study of the farthest planet of the Solar
System. Furthermore, OSS will provide a unique opportunity to visit a selected
Kuiper Belt object subsequent to the passage of the Neptunian system. It will
consolidate the hypothesis of the origin of Triton as a KBO captured by
Neptune, and improve our knowledge on the formation of the Solar system. The
probe will embark instruments allowing precise tracking of the probe during
cruise. It allows to perform the best controlled experiment for testing, in
deep space, the General Relativity, on which is based all the models of Solar
system formation. OSS is proposed as an international cooperation between ESA
and NASA, giving the capability for ESA to launch an M-class mission towards
the farthest planet of the Solar system, and to a Kuiper Belt object. The
proposed mission profile would allow to deliver a 500 kg class spacecraft. The
design of the probe is mainly constrained by the deep space gravity test in
order to minimise the perturbation of the accelerometer measurement.


Object Manipulation Learning by Imitation

  We aim to enable robot to learn object manipulation by imitation. Given
external observations of demonstrations on object manipulations, we believe
that two underlying problems to address in learning by imitation is 1) segment
a given demonstration into skills that can be individually learned and reused,
and 2) formulate the correct RL (Reinforcement Learning) problem that only
considers the relevant aspects of each skill so that the policy for each skill
can be effectively learned. Previous works made certain progress in this
direction, but none has taken private information into account. The public
information is the information that is available in the external observations
of demonstration, and the private information is the information that are only
available to the agent that executes the actions, such as tactile sensations.
Our contribution is that we provide a method for the robot to automatically
segment the demonstration of object manipulations into multiple skills, and
formulate the correct RL problem for each skill, and automatically decide
whether the private information is an important aspect of each skill based on
interaction with the world. Our experiment shows that our robot learns to pick
up a block, and stack it onto another block by imitating an observed
demonstration. The evaluation is based on 1) whether the demonstration is
reasonably segmented, 2) whether the correct RL problems are formulated, 3) and
whether a good policy is learned.


A Nonlinear Constrained Optimization Framework for Comfortable and
  Customizable Motion Planning of Nonholonomic Mobile Robots - Part I

  In this series of papers, we present a motion planning framework for planning
comfortable and customizable motion of nonholonomic mobile robots such as
intelligent wheelchairs and autonomous cars. In this first one we present the
mathematical foundation of our framework.
  The motion of a mobile robot that transports a human should be comfortable
and customizable. We identify several properties that a trajectory must have
for comfort. We model motion discomfort as a weighted cost functional and
define comfortable motion planning as a nonlinear constrained optimization
problem of computing trajectories that minimize this discomfort given the
appropriate boundary conditions and constraints. The optimization problem is
infinite-dimensional and we discretize it using conforming finite elements. We
also outline a method by which different users may customize the motion to
achieve personal comfort.
  There exists significant past work in kinodynamic motion planning, to the
best of our knowledge, our work is the first comprehensive formulation of
kinodynamic motion planning for a nonholonomic mobile robot as a nonlinear
optimization problem that includes all of the following - a careful analysis of
boundary conditions, continuity requirements on trajectory, dynamic
constraints, obstacle avoidance constraints, and a robust numerical
implementation.
  In this paper, we present the mathematical foundation of the motion planning
framework and formulate the full nonlinear constrained optimization problem. We
describe, in brief, the discretization method using finite elements and the
process of computing initial guesses for the optimization problem. Details of
the above two are presented in Part II of the series.


Back to "Normal" for the Disintegrating Planet Candidate KIC 12557548 b

  KIC 12557548 b is first of a growing class of intriguing disintegrating
planet candidates, which lose mass in the form of a metal rich vapor that
condenses into dust particles. Here, we follow up two perplexing observations
of the system: 1) the transits appeared shallower than average in 2013 and 2014
and 2) the parameters derived from a high resolution spectrum of the star
differed from other results using photometry and low resolution spectroscopy.
We observe 5 transits of the system with the 61-inch Kuiper telescope in 2016
and show that they are consistent with photometry from the Kepler spacecraft in
2009-2013, suggesting that the dusty tail has returned to normal length and
mass. We also evaluate high resolution archival spectra from the Subaru HDS
spectrograph and find them to be consistent with a main-sequence Teff=4440 +/-
70 K star in agreement with the photometry and low resolution spectroscopy.
This disfavors the hypothesis that planet disintegration affected the analysis
of prior high resolution spectra of this star. We apply Principal Component
Analysis to the Kepler long cadence data to understand the modes of
disintegration. There is a tentative 491 day periodicity of the second
principal component, which corresponds to possible long-term evolution of the
dust grain sizes, though the mechanism on such long timescales remains unclear.


Identification of Main Sequence Stars with Mid-Infrared Excesses Using
  GLIMPSE: Beta-Pictoris Analogs?

  Spitzer IRAC 3.6-8 micron photometry obtained as part of the GLIMPSE survey
has revealed mid-infrared excesses for 33 field stars with known spectral types
in a 1.2 sq. degree field centered on the southern Galactic HII region RCW49.
These stars comprise a subset of 184 stars with known spectral classification,
most of which were pre-selected to have unusually red IR colors. We propose
that the mid-IR excesses are caused by circumstellar dust disks that are either
very late remnants of stellar formation or debris disks generated by planet
formation. Of these 33 stars, 29 appear to be main-sequence stars based on
optical spectral classifications. Five of the 29 main-sequence stars are O or B
stars with excesses that can be plausibly explained by thermal bremsstrahlung
emission, and four are post main-sequence stars. The lone O star is an O4V((f))
at a spectrophotometric distance of 3233+ 540- 535 pc and may be the earliest
member of the Westerlund 2 cluster. Of the remaining 24 main-sequence stars, 18
have SEDs that are consistent with hot dusty debris disks, a possible signature
of planet formation. Modeling the excesses as blackbodies demonstrates that the
blackbody components have fractional bolometric disk-to-star luminosity ratios,
LIR/L*, ranging from 10^-3 to 10^-2 with temperatures ranging from 220 to 820
K. The inferred temperatures are more consistent with asteroid belts rather
than the cooler temperatures expected for Kuiper belts. Mid-IR excesses are
found in all spectral types from late B to early K.


Disk Radii and Grain Sizes in Herschel-Resolved Debris Disks

  (Abridged) The radii of debris disks and the sizes of their dust grains are
tracers of the formation mechanisms and physical processes operating in these
systems. We use a sample of 34 debris disks spatially resolved in various
Herschel programs to constrain them. While we modeled disks with both warm and
cold components, we focus our analysis only on the cold outer disks, i.e.
Kuiper-belt analogs. The disk radii derived from the resolved images reveal a
large dispersion, but no significant trend with the stellar luminosity, which
argues against ice lines as a dominant player in setting the debris disk sizes.
Fixing the disk radii to those inferred from the resolved images, we model the
spectral energy distributions to determine the dust temperatures and the grain
size distributions. While the dust temperature systematically increases towards
earlier spectral types, its ratio to the blackbody temperature at the disk
radius decreases with the stellar luminosity. This is explained by an increase
of typical grain sizes towards more luminous stars. The sizes are compared to
the radiation pressure blowout limit $s_\text{blow}$ that is proportional to
the stellar luminosity-to-mass ratio and thus also increases towards earlier
spectral classes. The grain sizes in the disks of G- to A-stars are inferred to
be several times $s_\text{blow}$ at all stellar luminosities, in agreement with
collisional models of debris disks. The sizes, measured in the units of
$s_\text{blow}$, appear to decrease with the luminosity, which may be
suggestive of the disk's stirring level increasing towards earlier-type stars.


Incidence of debris discs around FGK stars in the solar neighbourhood

  Debris discs are a consequence of the planet formation process and constitute
the fingerprints of planetesimal systems. Their solar system's counterparts are
the asteroid and Edgeworth-Kuiper belts. The aim of this paper is to provide
robust numbers for the incidence of debris discs around FGK stars in the solar
neighbourhood. The full sample of 177 FGK stars with d<20 pc proposed for the
DUNES survey is presented. Herschel/PACS observations at 100 and 160 micron
complemented with data at 70 micron, and at 250, 350 and 500 micron SPIRE
photometry, were obtained. The 123 objects observed by the DUNES collaboration
were presented in a previous paper. The remaining 54 stars, shared with the
DEBRIS consortium and observed by them, and the combined full sample are
studied in this paper. The incidence of debris discs per spectral type is
analysed and put into context together with other parameters of the sample,
like metallicity, rotation and activity, and age.
  The subsample of 105 stars with d<15 pc containing 23 F, 33 G and 49 K stars,
is complete for F stars, almost complete for G stars and contains a substantial
number of K stars to draw solid conclusions on objects of this spectral type.
The incidence rates of debris discs per spectral type 0.26 (6 objects with
excesses out of 23 F stars), 0.21 (7 out of 33 G stars) and 0.20 (10 out of 49
K stars), the fraction for all three spectral types together being 0.22 (23 out
of 105 stars). Uncertainties corresponding to a 95% confidence level are given
in the text for all these numbers. The medians of the upper limits of
L_dust/L_* for each spectral type are 7.8E-7 (F), 1.4E-6 (G) and 2.2E-6 (K);
the lowest values being around 4.0E-7. The incidence of debris discs is similar
for active (young) and inactive (old) stars. The fractional luminosity tends to
drop with increasing age, as expected from collisional erosion of the debris
belts.


Secular Dynamics of an Exterior Test Particle: The Inverse Kozai and
  Other Eccentricity-Inclination Resonances

  The behavior of an interior test particle in the secular 3-body problem has
been studied extensively. A well-known feature is the Lidov-Kozai resonance in
which the test particle's argument of periapse librates about $\pm 90^\circ$
and large oscillations in eccentricity and inclination are possible. Less
explored is the inverse problem: the dynamics of an exterior test particle and
an interior perturber. We survey numerically the inverse secular problem,
expanding the potential to hexadecapolar order and correcting an error in the
published expansion. Four secular resonances are uncovered that persist in full
$N$-body treatments (in what follows, $\varpi$ and $\Omega$ are the longitudes
of periapse and of ascending node, $\omega$ is the argument of periapse, and
subscripts 1 and 2 refer to the inner perturber and outer test particle): (i)
an orbit-flipping quadrupole resonance requiring a non-zero perturber
eccentricity $e_1$, in which $\Omega_2-\varpi_1$ librates about $\pm 90^\circ$;
(ii) a hexadecapolar resonance (the "inverse Kozai" resonance) for perturbers
that are circular or nearly so and inclined by $I \simeq 63^\circ/117^\circ$,
in which $\omega_2$ librates about $\pm 90^\circ$ and which can vary the
particle eccentricity by $\Delta e_2 \simeq 0.2$ and lead to orbit crossing;
(iii) an octopole "apse-aligned" resonance at $I \simeq 46^\circ/107^\circ$
wherein $\varpi_2 - \varpi_1$ librates about $0^\circ$ and $\Delta e_2$ grows
with $e_1$; and (iv) an octopole resonance at $I \simeq 73^\circ/134^\circ$
wherein $\varpi_2 + \varpi_1 - 2 \Omega_2$ librates about $0^\circ$ and $\Delta
e_2$ can be as large as 0.3 for small $e_1 \neq 0$. The more eccentric the
perturber, the more the particle's eccentricity and inclination vary; also,
more polar orbits are more chaotic. Our inverse solutions may be applied to the
Kuiper belt and debris disks, circumbinary planets, and stellar systems.


Learning and Acting in Peripersonal Space: Moving, Reaching, and
  Grasping

  The young infant explores its body, its sensorimotor system, and the
immediately accessible parts of its environment, over the course of a few
months creating a model of peripersonal space useful for reaching and grasping
objects around it. Drawing on constraints from the empirical literature on
infant behavior, we present a preliminary computational model of this learning
process, implemented and evaluated on a physical robot. The learning agent
explores the relationship between the configuration space of the arm, sensing
joint angles through proprioception, and its visual perceptions of the hand and
grippers. The resulting knowledge is represented as the peripersonal space
(PPS) graph, where nodes represent states of the arm, edges represent safe
movements, and paths represent safe trajectories from one pose to another. In
our model, the learning process is driven by intrinsic motivation. When
repeatedly performing an action, the agent learns the typical result, but also
detects unusual outcomes, and is motivated to learn how to make those unusual
results reliable. Arm motions typically leave the static background unchanged,
but occasionally bump an object, changing its static position. The reach action
is learned as a reliable way to bump and move an object in the environment.
Similarly, once a reliable reach action is learned, it typically makes a
quasi-static change in the environment, moving an object from one static
position to another. The unusual outcome is that the object is accidentally
grasped (thanks to the innate Palmar reflex), and thereafter moves dynamically
with the hand. Learning to make grasps reliable is more complex than for
reaches, but we demonstrate significant progress. Our current results are steps
toward autonomous sensorimotor learning of motion, reaching, and grasping in
peripersonal space, based on unguided exploration and intrinsic motivation.


ATLAS Probe: Breakthrough Science of Galaxy Evolution, Cosmology, Milky
  Way, and the Solar System

  ATLAS (Astrophysics Telescope for Large Area Spectroscopy) Probe is a concept
for a NASA probe-class space mission. It is the follow-up space mission to
WFIRST, boosting its scientific return by obtaining deep IR slit spectroscopy
for 70% of all galaxies imaged by a 2000 sq deg WFIRST High Latitude Survey at
z>0.5. ATLAS will measure accurate and precise redshifts for 200M galaxies out
to z < 7, and deliver spectra that enable a wide range of diagnostic studies of
the physical properties of galaxies over most of cosmic history. ATLAS Probe
science spans four broad categories: (1) Revolutionizing galaxy evolution
studies by tracing the relation between galaxies and dark matter from galaxy
groups to cosmic voids and filaments, from the epoch of reionization through
the peak era of galaxy assembly; (2) Opening a new window into the dark
Universe by weighing the dark matter filaments using 3D weak lensing with
spectroscopic redshifts, and obtaining definitive measurements of dark energy
and modification of General Relativity using galaxy clustering; (3) Probing the
Milky Way's dust-enshrouded regions, reaching the far side of our Galaxy; and
(4) Exploring the formation history of the outer Solar System by characterizing
Kuiper Belt Objects. ATLAS Probe is a 1.5m telescope with a field of view of
0.4 sq deg, and uses Digital Micro-mirror Devices (DMDs) as slit selectors. It
has a spectroscopic resolution of R = 1000 over 1-4 microns, and a
spectroscopic multiplex factor >5,000. ATLAS is designed to fit within the NASA
probe-class space mission cost envelope; it has a single instrument, a
telescope aperture that allows for a lighter launch vehicle, and mature
technology. ATLAS Probe will lead to transformative science over the entire
range of astrophysics: from galaxy evolution to the dark Universe, from Solar
System objects to the dusty regions of the Milky Way.


