Approximating the Permanent with Belief Propagation

  This work describes a method of approximating matrix permanents efficiently
using belief propagation. We formulate a probability distribution whose
partition function is exactly the permanent, then use Bethe free energy to
approximate this partition function. After deriving some speedups to standard
belief propagation, the resulting algorithm requires $(n^2)$ time per
iteration. Finally, we demonstrate the advantages of using this approximation.


ANA at SemEval-2019 Task 3: Contextual Emotion detection in
  Conversations through hierarchical LSTMs and BERT

  This paper describes the system submitted by ANA Team for the SemEval-2019
Task 3: EmoContext. We propose a novel Hierarchical LSTMs for Contextual
Emotion Detection (HRLCE) model. It classifies the emotion of an utterance
given its conversational context. The results show that, in this task, our
HRCLE outperforms the most recent state-of-the-art text classification
framework: BERT. We combine the results generated by BERT and HRCLE to achieve
an overall score of 0.7709 which ranked 5th on the final leader board of the
competition among 165 Teams.


Utilizing BERT for Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis via Constructing
  Auxiliary Sentence

  Aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA), which aims to identify fine-grained
opinion polarity towards a specific aspect, is a challenging subtask of
sentiment analysis (SA). In this paper, we construct an auxiliary sentence from
the aspect and convert ABSA to a sentence-pair classification task, such as
question answering (QA) and natural language inference (NLI). We fine-tune the
pre-trained model from BERT and achieve new state-of-the-art results on
SentiHood and SemEval-2014 Task 4 datasets.


Best-Choice Edge Grafting for Efficient Structure Learning of Markov
  Random Fields

  Incremental methods for structure learning of pairwise Markov random fields
(MRFs), such as grafting, improve scalability by avoiding inference over the
entire feature space in each optimization step. Instead, inference is performed
over an incrementally grown active set of features. In this paper, we address
key computational bottlenecks that current incremental techniques still suffer
by introducing best-choice edge grafting, an incremental, structured method
that activates edges as groups of features in a streaming setting. The method
uses a reservoir of edges that satisfy an activation condition, approximating
the search for the optimal edge to activate. It also reorganizes the search
space using search-history and structure heuristics. Experiments show a
significant speedup for structure learning and a controllable trade-off between
the speed and quality of learning.


Beyond Parity: Fairness Objectives for Collaborative Filtering

  We study fairness in collaborative-filtering recommender systems, which are
sensitive to discrimination that exists in historical data. Biased data can
lead collaborative-filtering methods to make unfair predictions for users from
minority groups. We identify the insufficiency of existing fairness metrics and
propose four new metrics that address different forms of unfairness. These
fairness metrics can be optimized by adding fairness terms to the learning
objective. Experiments on synthetic and real data show that our new metrics can
better measure fairness than the baseline, and that the fairness objectives
effectively help reduce unfairness.


New Fairness Metrics for Recommendation that Embrace Differences

  We study fairness in collaborative-filtering recommender systems, which are
sensitive to discrimination that exists in historical data. Biased data can
lead collaborative filtering methods to make unfair predictions against
minority groups of users. We identify the insufficiency of existing fairness
metrics and propose four new metrics that address different forms of
unfairness. These fairness metrics can be optimized by adding fairness terms to
the learning objective. Experiments on synthetic and real data show that our
new metrics can better measure fairness than the baseline, and that the
fairness objectives effectively help reduce unfairness.


Adversarial Label Learning

  We consider the task of training classifiers without labels. We propose a
weakly supervised method---adversarial label learning---that trains classifiers
to perform well against an adversary that chooses labels for training data. The
weak supervision constrains what labels the adversary can choose. The method
therefore minimizes an upper bound of the classifier's error rate using
projected primal-dual subgradient descent. Minimizing this bound protects
against bias and dependencies in the weak supervision. Experiments on three
real datasets show that our method can train without labels and outperforms
other approaches for weakly supervised learning.


Toward Fast and Accurate Neural Chinese Word Segmentation with
  Multi-Criteria Learning

  The ambiguous annotation criteria bring into the divergence of Chinese Word
Segmentation (CWS) datasets with various granularities. Multi-criteria learning
leverage the annotation style of individual datasets and mine their common
basic knowledge. In this paper, we proposed a domain adaptive segmenter to
capture diverse criteria of datasets. Our model is based on Bidirectional
Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT), which is responsible for
introducing external knowledge. We also optimize its computational efficiency
via model pruning, quantization, and compiler optimization. Experiments show
that our segmenter outperforms the previous results on 10 CWS datasets and is
faster than the previous state-of-the-art Bi-LSTM-CRF model.


Impedance matching and emission properties of optical antennas in a
  nanophotonic circuit

  An experimentally realizable prototype nanophotonic circuit consisting of a
receiving and an emitting nano antenna connected by a two-wire optical
transmission line is studied using finite-difference time- and frequency-domain
simulations. To optimize the coupling between nanophotonic circuit elements we
apply impedance matching concepts in analogy to radio frequency technology. We
show that the degree of impedance matching, and in particular the impedance of
the transmitting nano antenna, can be inferred from the experimentally
accessible standing wave pattern on the transmission line. We demonstrate the
possibility of matching the nano antenna impedance to the transmission line
characteristic impedance by variations of the antenna length and width
realizable by modern microfabrication techniques. The radiation efficiency of
the transmitting antenna also depends on its geometry but is independent of the
degree of impedance matching. Our systems approach to nanophotonics provides
the basis for realizing general nanophotonic circuits and a large variety of
derived novel devices.


Mode imaging and selection in strongly coupled nanoantennas

  The number of eigenmodes in plasmonic nanostructures increases with
complexity due to mode hybridization, raising the need for efficient mode
characterization and selection. Here we experimentally demonstrate direct
imaging and selective excitation of the bonding and antibonding plasmon mode in
symmetric dipole nanoantennas using confocal two-photon photoluminescence
mapping. Excitation of a high-quality-factor antibonding resonance manifests
itself as a two-lobed pattern instead of the single spot observed for the broad
bonding resonance, in accordance with numerical simulations. The two-lobed
pattern is observed due to the fact that excitation of the antibonding mode is
forbidden for symmetric excitation at the feedgap, while concomitantly the mode
energy splitting is large enough to suppress excitation of the bonding mode.
The controlled excitation of modes in strongly coupled plasmonic nanostructures
is mandatory for efficient sensors, in coherent control as well as for
implementing well-defined functionalities in complex plasmonic devices.


Nanoantennas for visible and infrared radiation

  Nanoantennas for visible and infrared radiation can strongly enhance the
interaction of light with nanoscale matter by their ability to efficiently link
propagating and spatially localized optical fields. This ability unlocks an
enormous potential for applications ranging from nanoscale optical microscopy
and spectroscopy over solar energy conversion, integrated optical
nanocircuitry, opto-electronics and density-ofstates engineering to
ultra-sensing as well as enhancement of optical nonlinearities. Here we review
the current understanding of optical antennas based on the background of both
well-developed radiowave antenna engineering and the emerging field of
plasmonics. In particular, we address the plasmonic behavior that emerges due
to the very high optical frequencies involved and the limitations in the choice
of antenna materials and geometrical parameters imposed by nanofabrication.
Finally, we give a brief account of the current status of the field and the
major established and emerging lines of investigation in this vivid area of
research.


Graph-based Generalization Bounds for Learning Binary Relations

  We investigate the generalizability of learned binary relations: functions
that map pairs of instances to a logical indicator. This problem has
application in numerous areas of machine learning, such as ranking, entity
resolution and link prediction. Our learning framework incorporates an example
labeler that, given a sequence $X$ of $n$ instances and a desired training size
$m$, subsamples $m$ pairs from $X \times X$ without replacement. The challenge
in analyzing this learning scenario is that pairwise combinations of random
variables are inherently dependent, which prevents us from using traditional
learning-theoretic arguments. We present a unified, graph-based analysis, which
allows us to analyze this dependence using well-known graph identities. We are
then able to bound the generalization error of learned binary relations using
Rademacher complexity and algorithmic stability. The rate of uniform
convergence is partially determined by the labeler's subsampling process. We
thus examine how various assumptions about subsampling affect generalization;
under a natural random subsampling process, our bounds guarantee
$\tilde{O}(1/\sqrt{n})$ uniform convergence.


Multi-relational Learning Using Weighted Tensor Decomposition with
  Modular Loss

  We propose a modular framework for multi-relational learning via tensor
decomposition. In our learning setting, the training data contains multiple
types of relationships among a set of objects, which we represent by a sparse
three-mode tensor. The goal is to predict the values of the missing entries. To
do so, we model each relationship as a function of a linear combination of
latent factors. We learn this latent representation by computing a low-rank
tensor decomposition, using quasi-Newton optimization of a weighted objective
function. Sparsity in the observed data is captured by the weighted objective,
leading to improved accuracy when training data is limited. Exploiting sparsity
also improves efficiency, potentially up to an order of magnitude over
unweighted approaches. In addition, our framework accommodates arbitrary
combinations of smooth, task-specific loss functions, making it better suited
for learning different types of relations. For the typical cases of real-valued
functions and binary relations, we propose several loss functions and derive
the associated parameter gradients. We evaluate our method on synthetic and
real data, showing significant improvements in both accuracy and scalability
over related factorization techniques.


Multimode plasmon excitation and in-situ analysis in top-down fabricated
  plasmonic nanocircuits

  We experimentally demonstrate synthesis and in-situ analysis of multimode
plasmonic excitations in two-wire transmission lines supporting a symmetric and
an antisymmetric eigenmode. To this end we irradiate an incoupling antenna with
a diffraction-limited excitation spot exploiting a polarization- and
position-dependent excitation efficiency. Modal analysis is performed by
recording the far-field emission of two mode-specific spatially separated
emission spots at the far end of the transmission line. To illustrate the power
of the approach we selectively determine the group velocities of symmetric and
antisymmetric contributions of a multimode ultrafast plasmon pulse.


A Hypergraph-Partitioned Vertex Programming Approach for Large-scale
  Consensus Optimization

  In modern data science problems, techniques for extracting value from big
data require performing large-scale optimization over heterogenous, irregularly
structured data. Much of this data is best represented as multi-relational
graphs, making vertex programming abstractions such as those of Pregel and
GraphLab ideal fits for modern large-scale data analysis. In this paper, we
describe a vertex-programming implementation of a popular consensus
optimization technique known as the alternating direction of multipliers
(ADMM). ADMM consensus optimization allows elegant solution of complex
objectives such as inference in rich probabilistic models. We also introduce a
novel hypergraph partitioning technique that improves over state-of-the-art
partitioning techniques for vertex programming and significantly reduces the
communication cost by reducing the number of replicated nodes up to an order of
magnitude. We implemented our algorithm in GraphLab and measure scaling
performance on a variety of realistic bipartite graph distributions and a large
synthetic voter-opinion analysis application. In our experiments, we are able
to achieve a 50% improvement in runtime over the current state-of-the-art
GraphLab partitioning scheme.


Cyberbullying Identification Using Participant-Vocabulary Consistency

  With the rise of social media, people can now form relationships and
communities easily regardless of location, race, ethnicity, or gender. However,
the power of social media simultaneously enables harmful online behavior such
as harassment and bullying. Cyberbullying is a serious social problem, making
it an important topic in social network analysis. Machine learning methods can
potentially help provide better understanding of this phenomenon, but they must
address several key challenges: the rapidly changing vocabulary involved in
cyber- bullying, the role of social network structure, and the scale of the
data. In this study, we propose a model that simultaneously discovers
instigators and victims of bullying as well as new bullying vocabulary by
starting with a corpus of social interactions and a seed dictionary of bullying
indicators. We formulate an objective function based on participant-vocabulary
consistency. We evaluate this approach on Twitter and Ask.fm data sets and show
that the proposed method can detect new bullying vocabulary as well as victims
and bullies.


Atomic-scale confinement of optical fields

  In the presence of matter there is no fundamental limit preventing
confinement of visible light even down to atomic scales. Achieving such
confinement and the corresponding intensity enhancement inevitably requires
simultaneous control over atomic-scale details of material structures and over
the optical modes that such structures support. By means of self-assembly we
have obtained side-by-side aligned gold nanorod dimers with robust
atomically-defined gaps reaching below 0.5 nm. The existence of
atomically-confined light fields in these gaps is demonstrated by observing
extreme Coulomb splitting of corresponding symmetric and anti-symmetric dimer
eigenmodes of more than 800 meV in white-light scattering experiments. Our
results open new perspectives for atomically-resolved spectroscopic imaging,
deeply nonlinear optics, ultra-sensing, cavity optomechanics as well as for the
realization of novel quantum-optical devices.


Hinge-loss Markov Random Fields: Convex Inference for Structured
  Prediction

  Graphical models for structured domains are powerful tools, but the
computational complexities of combinatorial prediction spaces can force
restrictions on models, or require approximate inference in order to be
tractable. Instead of working in a combinatorial space, we use hinge-loss
Markov random fields (HL-MRFs), an expressive class of graphical models with
log-concave density functions over continuous variables, which can represent
confidences in discrete predictions. This paper demonstrates that HL-MRFs are
general tools for fast and accurate structured prediction. We introduce the
first inference algorithm that is both scalable and applicable to the full
class of HL-MRFs, and show how to train HL-MRFs with several learning
algorithms. Our experiments show that HL-MRFs match or surpass the predictive
performance of state-of-the-art methods, including discrete models, in four
application domains.


Recurrent Collective Classification

  We propose a new method for training iterative collective classifiers for
labeling nodes in network data. The iterative classification algorithm (ICA) is
a canonical method for incorporating relational information into
classification. Yet, existing methods for training ICA models rely on the
assumption that relational features reflect the true labels of the nodes. This
unrealistic assumption introduces a bias that is inconsistent with the actual
prediction algorithm. In this paper, we introduce recurrent collective
classification (RCC), a variant of ICA analogous to recurrent neural network
prediction. RCC accommodates any differentiable local classifier and relational
feature functions. We provide gradient-based strategies for optimizing over
model parameters to more directly minimize the loss function. In our
experiments, this direct loss minimization translates to improved accuracy and
robustness on real network data. We demonstrate the robustness of RCC in
settings where local classification is very noisy, settings that are
particularly challenging for ICA.


Block Belief Propagation for Parameter Learning in Markov Random Fields

  Traditional learning methods for training Markov random fields require doing
inference over all variables to compute the likelihood gradient. The iteration
complexity for those methods therefore scales with the size of the graphical
models. In this paper, we propose \emph{block belief propagation learning}
(BBPL), which uses block-coordinate updates of approximate marginals to compute
approximate gradients, removing the need to compute inference on the entire
graphical model. Thus, the iteration complexity of BBPL does not scale with the
size of the graphs. We prove that the method converges to the same solution as
that obtained by using full inference per iteration, despite these
approximations, and we empirically demonstrate its scalability improvements
over standard training methods.


SDNet: Contextualized Attention-based Deep Network for Conversational
  Question Answering

  Conversational question answering (CQA) is a novel QA task that requires
understanding of dialogue context. Different from traditional single-turn
machine reading comprehension (MRC) tasks, CQA includes passage comprehension,
coreference resolution, and contextual understanding. In this paper, we propose
an innovated contextualized attention-based deep neural network, SDNet, to fuse
context into traditional MRC models. Our model leverages both inter-attention
and self-attention to comprehend conversation context and extract relevant
information from passage. Furthermore, we demonstrated a novel method to
integrate the latest BERT contextual model. Empirical results show the
effectiveness of our model, which sets the new state of the art result in CoQA
leaderboard, outperforming the previous best model by 1.6% F1. Our ensemble
model further improves the result by 2.7% F1.


Atomically flat single-crystalline gold nanostructures for plasmonic
  nanocircuitry

  Deep subwavelength integration of high-definition plasmonic nanostructures is
of key importance for the development of future optical nanocircuitry for
high-speed communication, quantum computation and lab-on-a-chip applications.
So far the experimental realization of proposed extended plasmonic networks
consisting of multiple functional elements remains challenging, mainly due to
the multi-crystallinity of commonly used thermally evaporated gold layers.
Resulting structural imperfections in individual circuit elements will
drastically reduce the yield of functional integrated nanocircuits. Here we
demonstrate the use of very large (>100 micron^2) but thin (<80 nm) chemically
grown single-crystalline gold flakes, which, after immobilization, serve as an
ideal basis for focused-ion beam milling and other top-down nanofabrication
techniques on any desired substrate. Using this methodology we obtain
high-definition ultrasmooth gold nanostructures with superior optical
properties and reproducible nano-sized features over micrometer length scales.
Our approach provides a possible solution to overcome the current fabrication
bottleneck and to realize high-definition plasmonic nanocircuitry.


Hinge-Loss Markov Random Fields and Probabilistic Soft Logic

  A fundamental challenge in developing high-impact machine learning
technologies is balancing the need to model rich, structured domains with the
ability to scale to big data. Many important problem areas are both richly
structured and large scale, from social and biological networks, to knowledge
graphs and the Web, to images, video, and natural language. In this paper, we
introduce two new formalisms for modeling structured data, and show that they
can both capture rich structure and scale to big data. The first, hinge-loss
Markov random fields (HL-MRFs), is a new kind of probabilistic graphical model
that generalizes different approaches to convex inference. We unite three
approaches from the randomized algorithms, probabilistic graphical models, and
fuzzy logic communities, showing that all three lead to the same inference
objective. We then define HL-MRFs by generalizing this unified objective. The
second new formalism, probabilistic soft logic (PSL), is a probabilistic
programming language that makes HL-MRFs easy to define using a syntax based on
first-order logic. We introduce an algorithm for inferring most-probable
variable assignments (MAP inference) that is much more scalable than
general-purpose convex optimization methods, because it uses message passing to
take advantage of sparse dependency structures. We then show how to learn the
parameters of HL-MRFs. The learned HL-MRFs are as accurate as analogous
discrete models, but much more scalable. Together, these algorithms enable
HL-MRFs and PSL to model rich, structured data at scales not previously
possible.


'Beating the news' with EMBERS: Forecasting Civil Unrest using Open
  Source Indicators

  We describe the design, implementation, and evaluation of EMBERS, an
automated, 24x7 continuous system for forecasting civil unrest across 10
countries of Latin America using open source indicators such as tweets, news
sources, blogs, economic indicators, and other data sources. Unlike
retrospective studies, EMBERS has been making forecasts into the future since
Nov 2012 which have been (and continue to be) evaluated by an independent T&E
team (MITRE). Of note, EMBERS has successfully forecast the uptick and downtick
of incidents during the June 2013 protests in Brazil. We outline the system
architecture of EMBERS, individual models that leverage specific data sources,
and a fusion and suppression engine that supports trading off specific
evaluation criteria. EMBERS also provides an audit trail interface that enables
the investigation of why specific predictions were made along with the data
utilized for forecasting. Through numerous evaluations, we demonstrate the
superiority of EMBERS over baserate methods and its capability to forecast
significant societal happenings.


