Critical Relaxation and Critical Exponents

  Dynamic relaxation of the XY model and fully frustrated XY model quenched
from an initial ordered state to the critical temperature or below is
investigated with Monte Carlo methods. Universal power law scaling behaviour is
observed. The dynamic critical exponent $z$ and the static exponent $\eta$ are
extracted from the time-dependent Binder cumulant and magnetization. The
results are competitive to those measured with traditional methods.


Lorentz Force Correction and Radiation Frequency Property of Charged
  Particles in Magnetic Dipole

  By concern of compression of charge density field, the corrected Lorentz
force formula and consequent inference is presented. And further radiation
frequency property of an individual charge density field in magnetic dipole is
analyzed respectively for radiant property of the charged particle and the
emitted electromagnetic wave transfer property between the moving radiant
source and observer. As results, the behavior and radiation frequency property
of the electron beam in magnetic dipole is interpreted upon the individual's
behavior and property. At final, the potential application is put forward for
wider interest.


Realizing bending waveguides with anisotropic epsilon-near-zero
  metamaterials

  We study metamaterials with an anisotropic effective permittivity tensor in
which one component is near zero. We find that such an anisotropic metamaterial
can be used to control wave propagation and construct almost perfect bending
waveguides with a high transmission rate (>95%). This interesting effect
originates in the power flow redistribution by the surface waves on the input
and output interfaces, which smoothly matches with the propagating modes inside
the metamaterial waveguide. We also find that waves in such anisotropic
epsilon-near-zero materials can be reflected by small-sized perfect magnetic
conductor defects. Numerical calculations have been performed to confirm the
above effects.


Roots of Amplitudes

  In a recent paper [arXiv:1106.0166], boundary contributions in BCFW recursion
relations have been related to roots of amplitudes. In this paper, we make
several analyses regarding to this problem. Firstly, we use different ways to
re-derive boundary BCFW recursion relations given in [arXiv:1106.0166].
Secondly, we generalize factorization limits to z-dependent ones, where
information of roots is more transparent. Then, we demon- strate our analysis
with several examples. In general, relations from factorization limits cannot
guarantee to find explicit expressions for roots.


Multi-level Resistive Switching Characteristics of W/Co:TiO2/FTO
  Structures

  In the present work, multi-level resistive switching (RS) in W/Co:TiO2/FTO
structures induced by a multi-mixed mechanism was studied. It was found that
the devices could be reproducibly programmed into three nonvolatile resistance
states. And the directly switching between any resistance states was realized.
This increases the operation speed and lowers the complexity of control circuit
of multi-state nonvolatile memory.


On the derivations of lattice Boltzmann evolution equation

  A comparative analysis on the popular schemes for evaluating evolution
equation in lattice Boltzmann method (LBM) is presented in this paper. It
includes two classical characteristic-line schemes, Boesh-Karlin and He-Luo
scheme, and a author-proposed scheme, Taylor-expansion scheme, originating from
the extension of He-Luo scheme. We detailly discuss the mathematical mechanism
and the equilibrium distribution evolution behind them. By analyzing the
conflict between prediction and derivation, we address the preconditions for
these schemes. At the end, we conclude their pros and cons and suggest scheme's
applicable scene based on their derivation procedure and further development
capacity.


Towards Imperceptible and Robust Adversarial Example Attacks against
  Neural Networks

  Machine learning systems based on deep neural networks, being able to produce
state-of-the-art results on various perception tasks, have gained mainstream
adoption in many applications. However, they are shown to be vulnerable to
adversarial example attack, which generates malicious output by adding slight
perturbations to the input. Previous adversarial example crafting methods,
however, use simple metrics to evaluate the distances between the original
examples and the adversarial ones, which could be easily detected by human
eyes. In addition, these attacks are often not robust due to the inevitable
noises and deviation in the physical world. In this work, we present a new
adversarial example attack crafting method, which takes the human perceptual
system into consideration and maximizes the noise tolerance of the crafted
adversarial example. Experimental results demonstrate the efficacy of the
proposed technique.


On Configurable Defense against Adversarial Example Attacks

  Machine learning systems based on deep neural networks (DNNs) have gained
mainstream adoption in many applications. Recently, however, DNNs are shown to
be vulnerable to adversarial example attacks with slight perturbations on the
inputs. Existing defense mechanisms against such attacks try to improve the
overall robustness of the system, but they do not differentiate different
targeted attacks even though the corresponding impacts may vary significantly.
To tackle this problem, we propose a novel configurable defense mechanism in
this work, wherein we are able to flexibly tune the robustness of the system
against different targeted attacks to satisfy application requirements. This is
achieved by refining the DNN loss function with an attack sensitive matrix to
represent the impacts of different targeted attacks. Experimental results on
CIFAR-10 and GTSRB data sets demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed solution.


Short-time Dynamic Behaviour of Critical XY Systems

  Using Monte Carlo methods, the short-time dynamic scaling behaviour of
two-dimensional critical XY systems is investigated. Our results for the XY
model show that there exists universal scaling behaviour already in the
short-time regime, but the values of the dynamic exponent $z$ differ for
different initial conditions. For the fully frustrated XY model, power law
scaling behaviour is also observed in the short-time regime.
  However, a violation of the standard scaling relation between the exponents
is detected.


The Critical Exponent $θ'$ in Spin Glasses

  Short-time dynamic scaling behavior of the 3D $\pm J$ Ising spin glass is
studied by Monte Carlo methods. Starting the replicas with independent initial
configurations with a small pseudo magnetization, the dynamic evolution of the
overlap q(t) between two replicas is measured. The initial increase of the
overlap q(t) is observed and the corresponding exponent $\theta'$ is obtained.
  From the scaling relation $\lambda =d/z-\theta'$, the dynamic exponent z is
estimated.


Monte Carlo Simulations of Short-time Critical Dynamics with a Conserved
  Quantity

  With Monte Carlo simulations, we investigate short-time critical dynamics of
the three-dimensional anti-ferromagnetic Ising model with a globally conserved
magnetization $m_s$ (not the order parameter). From the power law behavior of
the staggered magnetization (the order parameter), its second moment and the
auto-correlation, we determine all static and dynamic critical exponents as
well as the critical temperature. The universality class of $m_s=0$ is the same
as that without a conserved quantity, but the universality class of non-zero
$m_s$ is different.


SINAP surface preparation processing for 500MHz superconducting cavity

  This paper illustrates the design, fabrication and experiment results of
surface preparation system for 500MHz superconducting cavity at Shanghai
Institute of Applied Physic (SINAP). The SINAP established a set of clean room,
buffered chemical polishing equipment, and high pressure ultra-pure water
rinsing facility. The whole surface preparation procedure has been operated
successfully and verified by the successful vertical tests of 500MHz single
cell superconducting cavity.


Feynman Rules of Higher-order Poles in CHY Construction

  In this paper, we generalize the integration rules for scattering equations
to situations where higher-order poles are present. We describe the strategy to
deduce the Feynman rules of higher-order poles from known analytic results of
simple CHY-integrands, and propose the Feynman rules for single double pole and
triple pole as well as duplex-double pole and triplex-double pole structures.
We demonstrate the validation and strength of these rules by ample non-trivial
examples.


Note on recursion relations for the $\mathcal{Q}$-cut representation

  In this note, we study the $\mathcal{Q}$-cut representation by combining it
with BCFW deformation. As a consequence, the one-loop integrand is expressed in
terms of a recursion relation, i.e., $n$-point one-loop integrand is
constructed using tree-level amplitudes and $m$-point one-loop integrands with
$m\leq n-1$. By giving explicit examples, we show that the integrand from the
recursion relation is equivalent to that from Feynman diagrams or the original
$\mathcal{Q}$-cut construction, up to scale free terms.


Cyber-Physical Systems Security -- A Survey

  With the exponential growth of cyber-physical systems (CPS), new security
challenges have emerged. Various vulnerabilities, threats, attacks, and
controls have been introduced for the new generation of CPS. However, there
lack a systematic study of CPS security issues. In particular, the
heterogeneity of CPS components and the diversity of CPS systems have made it
very difficult to study the problem with one generalized model.
  In this paper, we capture and systematize existing research on CPS security
under a unified framework. The framework consists of three orthogonal
coordinates: (1) from the \emph{security} perspective, we follow the well-known
taxonomy of threats, vulnerabilities, attacks and controls; (2)from the
\emph{CPS components} perspective, we focus on cyber, physical, and
cyber-physical components; and (3) from the \emph{CPS systems} perspective, we
explore general CPS features as well as representative systems (e.g., smart
grids, medical CPS and smart cars). The model can be both abstract to show
general interactions of a CPS application and specific to capture any details
when needed. By doing so, we aim to build a model that is abstract enough to be
applicable to various heterogeneous CPS applications; and to gain a modular
view of the tightly coupled CPS components. Such abstract decoupling makes it
possible to gain a systematic understanding of CPS security, and to highlight
the potential sources of attacks and ways of protection.


Extensions of Erdős-Gallai Theorem and Luo's Theorem with
  Applications

  The famous Erd\H{o}s-Gallai Theorem on the Tur\'an number of paths states
that every graph with $n$ vertices and $m$ edges contains a path with at least
$\frac{2m}{n}$ edges. In this note, we first establish a simple but novel
extension of the Erd\H{o}s-Gallai Theorem by proving that every graph $G$
contains a path with at least $\frac{(s+1)N_{s+1}(G)}{N_{s}(G)}+s-1$ edges,
where $N_j(G)$ denotes the number of $j$-cliques in $G$ for $1\leq
j\leq\omega(G)$. We also construct a family of graphs which shows our extension
improves the estimate given by Erd\H{o}s-Gallai Theorem. Among applications, we
show, for example, that the main results of \cite{L17}, which are on the
maximum possible number of $s$-cliques in an $n$-vertex graph without a path
with $l$ vertices (and without cycles of length at least $c$), can be easily
deduced from this extension. Indeed, to prove these results, Luo \cite{L17}
generalized a classical theorem of Kopylov and established a tight upper bound
on the number of $s$-cliques in an $n$-vertex 2-connected graph with
circumference less than $c$. We prove a similar result for an $n$-vertex
2-connected graph with circumference less than $c$ and large minimum degree. We
conclude this paper with an application of our results to a problem from
spectral extremal graph theory on consecutive lengths of cycles in graphs.


Doping Effects on the two-dimensional Spin Dimer Compound
  $SrCu_2(BO_3)_2$

  A series of compounds M$_{0.1}$Sr$_{0.9}$Cu$_2$(BO$_3$)$_2$ with Sr
substituted by M=Al, La, Na and Y were prepared by solid state reaction. XRD
analysis showed that these doping compounds are isostructural to
SrCu$_2$(BO$_3$)$_2$. The magnetic susceptibility from 1.9K to 300K in an
applied magnetic field of 1.0T and the specific heat from 1.9K to 25K in
applied fields up to 14T were measured. The spin gap is deduced from the low
temperature susceptibility as well as the specific heat. It is found that the
spin gap is strongly suppressed by magnetic fields. No superconductivity is
observed in all four samples.


In-plane substitution effect on the magnetic properties of
  two-dimensional Spin-gap system SrCu$_2$(BO$_3$)$_2$

  A series of in-plane substituted compounds, including Cu-site
(SrZn$_x$Cu$_{2-x}$(BO$_3$)$_2$), and B-site
(SrCu$_2$(Si$_x$B$_{1-x}$O$_3$)$_2$) substitution, were synthesized by solid
state reaction. X-ray diffraction measurements reveal that these compounds are
single-phase materials and their in-plane lattice parameter depends
systematically on the substituting content $x$. The magnetic susceptibility in
different magnetic fields, the magnetization at different temperatures, and the
resistivity at room temperature were measured, respectively. It is found that
the spin gap deduced from the magnetic susceptibility measurements decreases
with increasing of $x$ in both Cu- and B-site substitution. No
superconductivity was found in these substituted compounds.


Birthrates and delay times of Type Ia supernovae

  Type Ia supernovae (SNe Ia) play an important role in diverse areas of
astrophysics, from the chemical evolution of galaxies to observational
cosmology. However, the nature of the progenitors of SNe Ia is still unclear.
In this paper, according to a detailed binary population synthesis study, we
obtained SN Ia birthrates and delay times from different progenitor models, and
compared them with observations. We find that the Galactic SN Ia birthrate from
the double-degenerate (DD) model is close to those inferred from observations,
while the birthrate from the single-degenerate (SD) model accounts for only
about 1/2-2/3 of the observations. If a single starburst is assumed, the
distribution of the delay times of SNe Ia from the SD model is a weak
bimodality, where the WD + He channel contributes to the SNe Ia with delay
times shorter than 100Myr, and the WD + MS and WD + RG channels to those with
age longer than 1Gyr.


An Introduction to On-shell Recursion Relations

  This article provides an introduction to on-shell recursion relations for
calculations of tree-level amplitudes. Starting with the basics, such as spinor
notations and color decompositions, we expose analytic properties of
gauge-boson amplitudes, BCFW-deformations, the large $z$-behavior of
amplitudes, and on-shell recursion relations of gluons. We discuss further
developments of on-shell recursion relations, including generalization to other
quantum field theories, supersymmetric theories in particular, recursion
relations for off-shell currents, recursion relation with nonzero boundary
contributions, bonus relations, relations for rational parts of one-loop
amplitudes, recursion relations in 3D and a proof of CSW rules. Finally, we
present samples of applications, including solutions of split helicity
amplitudes and of N= 4 SYM theories, consequences of consistent conditions
under recursion relation, Kleiss-Kuijf (KK) and Bern-Carrasco-Johansson (BCJ)
relations for color-ordered gluon tree amplitudes, Kawai-Lewellen-Tye (KLT)
relations.


Distributed Compressive Sensing Based Doubly Selective Channel
  Estimation for Large-Scale MIMO Systems

  Doubly selective (DS) channel estimation in largescale multiple-input
multiple-output (MIMO) systems is a challenging problem due to the requirement
of unaffordable pilot overheads and prohibitive complexity. In this paper, we
propose a novel distributed compressive sensing (DCS) based channel estimation
scheme to solve this problem. In the scheme, we introduce the basis expansion
model (BEM) to reduce the required channel coefficients and pilot overheads.
And due to the common sparsity of all the transmit-receive antenna pairs in
delay domain, we estimate the BEM coefficients by considering the DCS
framework, which has a simple linear structure with low complexity. Further
more, a linear smoothing method is proposed to improve the estimation accuracy.
Finally, we conduct various simulations to verify the validity of the proposed
scheme and demonstrate the performance gains of the proposed scheme compared
with conventional schemes.


Multiple Images Recovery Using a Single Affine Transformation

  In many real-world applications, image data often come with noises,
corruptions or large errors. One approach to deal with noise image data is to
use data recovery techniques which aim to recover the true uncorrupted signals
from the observed noise images. In this paper, we first introduce a novel
corruption recovery transformation (CRT) model which aims to recover multiple
(or a collection of) corrupted images using a single affine transformation.
Then, we show that the introduced CRT can be efficiently constructed through
learning from training data. Once CRT is learned, we can recover the true
signals from the new incoming/test corrupted images explicitly. As an
application, we apply our CRT to image recognition task. Experimental results
on six image datasets demonstrate that the proposed CRT model is effective in
recovering noise image data and thus leads to better recognition results.


Temporal Coherent and Graph Optimized Manifold Ranking for Visual
  Tracking

  Recently, weighted patch representation has been widely studied for
alleviating the impact of background information included in bounding box to
improve visual tracking results. However, existing weighted patch
representation models generally exploit spatial structure information among
patches in each frame separately which ignore (1) unary featureof each patch
and (2) temporal correlation among patches in different frames. To address this
problem, we propose a novel unified temporal coherence and graph optimized
ranking model for weighted patch representation in visual tracking problem.
There are three main contributions of this paper. First, we propose to employ a
flexible graph ranking for patch weight computation which exploits both
structure information among patches and unary feature of each patch
simultaneously. Second, we propose a new more discriminative ranking model by
further considering the temporal correlation among patches in different frames.
Third, a neighborhood preserved, low-rank graph is learned and incorporated to
build a unified optimized ranking model. Experiments on two benchmark datasets
show the benefits of our model.


Multiple Graph Adversarial Learning

  Recently, Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) have been widely studied for
graph-structured data representation and learning. However, in many real
applications, data are coming with multiple graphs, and it is non-trivial to
adapt GCNs to deal with data representation with multiple graph structures. One
main challenge for multi-graph representation is how to exploit both structure
information of each individual graph and correlation information across
multiple graphs simultaneously. In this paper, we propose a novel Multiple
Graph Adversarial Learning (MGAL) framework for multi-graph representation and
learning. MGAL aims to learn an optimal structure-invariant and consistent
representation for multiple graphs in a common subspace via a novel adversarial
learning framework, which thus incorporates both structure information of
intra-graph and correlation information of inter-graphs simultaneously. Based
on MGAL, we then provide a unified network for semi-supervised learning task.
Promising experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of MGAL model.


Understanding and predicting synthetic lethal genetic interactions in
  Saccharomyces cerevisiae using domain genetic interactions

  Genetic interactions have been widely used to define functional relationships
between proteins and pathways. In this study, we demonstrated that yeast
synthetic lethal genetic interactions can be explained by the genetic
interactions between domains of those proteins. The domain genetic interactions
rarely overlap with the domain physical interactions from iPfam database and
provide a complementary view about domain relationships. Moreover, we found
that domains in multidomain yeast proteins contribute to their genetic
interactions differently. The domain genetic interactions help more precisely
define the function related to the synthetic lethal genetic interactions, and
then help understand how domains contribute to different functionalities of
multidomain proteins. Using the probabilities of domain genetic interactions,
we were able to predict novel yeast synthetic lethal genetic interactions.
Furthermore, we had also identified novel compensatory pathways from the
predicted synthetic lethal genetic interactions. Our study significantly
improved the understanding of yeast mulitdomain proteins, the synthetic lethal
genetic interactions and the functional relationships between proteins and
pathways.


A unified theory for perfect absorption in ultra-thin absorptive films
  with constant tangential electric or magnetic fields

  The maximal absorption rate of ultra-thin films is 50% under the condition
that the tangential electric (or magnetic) field is almost constant across the
film in symmetrical environment. However, with certain reflectors, the
absorption rate can be greatly increased, to even perfect absorption (100%). In
this work, we explicitly derive the general conditions of the ultra-thin
absorptive film parameters to achieve perfect absorption with general types of
reflectors under the condition that the tangential electric (or magnetic) field
is almost constant across the film. We find that the parameters of the film can
be classified into three groups, exhibiting: 1) a large permittivity
(permeability), 2) a near-zero permeability (permittivity), or 3) a suitable
combination of the permittivity and the permeability, respectively.
Interestingly, the latter two cases demonstrate extraordinary absorption in
ultra-thin films with almost vanishing losses. Our work serves as a guide for
designing ultra-thin perfect absorbers with general types of reflectors.


Broadband perfect absorption of ultrathin conductive films with coherent
  illumination:Superabsorption of microwave radiation

  Absorption of microwave by metallic conductors is exclusively inefficient,
though being natively broadband, due to the huge impedance mismatch between
metal and free space. Reducing the thickness to ultrathin conductive film may
improve the absorbing efficiency, but is still bounded by a maximal 50% limit
induced by the field continuity. Here, we show that broadband perfect (100%)
absorption of microwave can be realized on a single layer of ultrathin
conductive film when it is illuminated coherently by two oppositely incident
beams. Such an effect of breaking the 50% limit maintains the intrinsic
broadband feature from the free carrier dissipation, and is
frequency-independent in an ultrawide spectrum, ranging typically from
kilohertz to gigahertz and exhibiting an unprecedented bandwidth close to 200%.
In particular, it occurs on extremely subwavelength scales, ~{\lambda}/10000 or
even thinner, which is the film thickness. Our work proposes a way to achieve
total electromagnetic wave absorption in a broadband spectrum of radio waves
and microwaves with a simple conductive film.


Smooth Neighbors on Teacher Graphs for Semi-supervised Learning

  The recently proposed self-ensembling methods have achieved promising results
in deep semi-supervised learning, which penalize inconsistent predictions of
unlabeled data under different perturbations. However, they only consider
adding perturbations to each single data point, while ignoring the connections
between data samples. In this paper, we propose a novel method, called Smooth
Neighbors on Teacher Graphs (SNTG). In SNTG, a graph is constructed based on
the predictions of the teacher model, i.e., the implicit self-ensemble of
models. Then the graph serves as a similarity measure with respect to which the
representations of "similar" neighboring points are learned to be smooth on the
low-dimensional manifold. We achieve state-of-the-art results on
semi-supervised learning benchmarks. The error rates are 9.89%, 3.99% for
CIFAR-10 with 4000 labels, SVHN with 500 labels, respectively. In particular,
the improvements are significant when the labels are fewer. For the
non-augmented MNIST with only 20 labels, the error rate is reduced from
previous 4.81% to 1.36%. Our method also shows robustness to noisy labels.


Three-body recombination near a narrow Feshbach resonance in $^6$Li

  We experimentally measure, and theoretically analyze the three-atom
recombination rate, $L_3$, around a narrow $s$ wave magnetic Feshbach resonance
of $^6$Li-$^6$Li at 543.3 Gauss. By examining both the magnetic field
dependence and especially the temperature dependence of $L_3$ over a wide range
of temperatures from a few $\mu$K to above 200 $\mu$K, we show that three-atom
recombination through a narrow resonance follows a universal behavior
determined by the long-range van der Waals potential, and can be described by a
set of rate equations in which three-body recombination proceeds via successive
pairwise interactions. We expect the underlying physical picture to be
applicable not only to narrow $s$ wave resonances, but also to resonances in
nonzero partial waves, and not only at ultracold temperatures, but also at much
higher temperatures.


Semi-crowdsourced Clustering with Deep Generative Models

  We consider the semi-supervised clustering problem where crowdsourcing
provides noisy information about the pairwise comparisons on a small subset of
data, i.e., whether a sample pair is in the same cluster. We propose a new
approach that includes a deep generative model (DGM) to characterize low-level
features of the data, and a statistical relational model for noisy pairwise
annotations on its subset. The two parts share the latent variables. To make
the model automatically trade-off between its complexity and fitting data, we
also develop its fully Bayesian variant. The challenge of inference is
addressed by fast (natural-gradient) stochastic variational inference
algorithms, where we effectively combine variational message passing for the
relational part and amortized learning of the DGM under a unified framework.
Empirical results on synthetic and real-world datasets show that our model
outperforms previous crowdsourced clustering methods.


Effectively integrating information content and structural relationship
  to improve the GO-based similarity measure between proteins

  The Gene Ontology (GO) provides a knowledge base to effectively describe
proteins. However, measuring similarity between proteins based on GO remains a
challenge. In this paper, we propose a new similarity measure, information
coefficient similarity measure (SimIC), to effectively integrate both the
information content (IC) of GO terms and the structural information of GO
hierarchy to determine the similarity between proteins. Testing on yeast
proteins, our results show that SimIC efficiently addresses the shallow
annotation issue in GO, thus improves the correlations between GO similarities
of yeast proteins and their expression similarities as well as between GO
similarities of yeast proteins and their sequence similarities. Furthermore, we
demonstrate that the proposed SimIC is superior in predicting yeast protein
interactions. We predict 20484 yeast protein-protein interactions (PPIs)
between 2462 proteins based on the high SimIC values of biological process (BP)
and cellular component (CC). Examining the 214 MIPS complexes in our predicted
PPIs shows that all members of 159 MIPS complexes can be found in our PPI
predictions, which is more than those (120/214) found in PPIs predicted by
relative specificity similarity (RSS). Integrating IC and structural
information of GO hierarchy can improve the effectiveness of the semantic
similarity measure of GO terms. The new SimIC can effectively correct the
effect of shallow annotation, and then provide an effective way to measure
similarity between proteins based on Gene Ontology.


V1224 Cas - an EL CVn-type Eclipsing Binary Consisting of a Helium White
  Dwarf Precursor and a Delta Scuti Pulsator

  We report the discovery of a new eclipsing EL CVn-type binary, consisting of
a $\delta$ Sct-type pulsator and a thermally bloated low-mass pre-He white
dwarf (WD). Spectroscopy and time-series $BV$ photometry of V1224 Cas were
carried out. The spectroscopy reveals a spectral type of A3 for the star.
Light-curve modelling indicate that V1224 Cas is a short-period detached system
containing a possible low-mass WD with an effective temperature of about 9516
K. Based on the effective temperature and the surface gravity of the A-type
primary star from the spectroscopic results, the absolute parameters of the
components were estimated as: $M_{P}$=2.16$\pm$0.22$M_{\sun}$,
$R_{P}$=3.54$\pm$0.12$R_{\sun}$, $L_{P}$=55.9$\pm$6.9$L_{\sun}$,
$M_{S}$=0.19$\pm$0.02$M_{\sun}$, $R_{S}$=0.97$\pm$0.04$R_{\sun}$, and
$L_{S}$=6.9$\pm$0.6$L_{\sun}$. We therefore introduce V1224 Cas as a new EL
CVn-type binary candidate. The light curves in both filters all show
multi-periodic pulsations, superimposed on binary effects. We performed a
preliminary frequency analysis of the light residuals after removing the
synthetic eclipsing curve from the original observational data. The results
suggest that the rapid light variations among the light curves could be
attributed to the $\delta$ Sct-type primary component. We therefore conclude
that V1224 Cas is very likely a WD+$\delta$ Sct binary.


Cross Section Evaluation by Spinor Integration I: The massless case in
  4D

  To get the total cross section of one interaction from its amplitude ${\cal
M}$, one needs to integrate $|{\cal M}|^2$ over phase spaces of all out-going
particles. Starting from this paper, we will propose a new method to perform
such integrations, which is inspired by the reduced phase space integration of
one-loop unitarity cut developed in the last few years. The new method reduces
one constrained three-dimension momentum space integration to an
one-dimensional integration, plus one possible Feynman parameter integration.
There is no need to specify a reference framework in our calculation, since
every step is manifestly Lorentz invariant by the new method. The current paper
is the first paper of a series for the new method. Here we have exclusively
focused on massless particles in 4D. There is no need to carve out a
complicated integration region in the phase space for this particular simple
case because the integration region is always simply $[0,1]$.


Hierarchicality of Trade Flow Networks Reveals Complexity of Products

  With globalization, countries are more connected than before by trading
flows, which currently amount to at least 36 trillion dollars. Interestingly,
approximately 30-60 percent of global exports consist of intermediate products.
Therefore, the trade flow network of a particular product with high added
values can be regarded as a value chain. The problem is weather we can
discriminate between these products based on their unique flow network
structure. This paper applies the flow analysis method developed in ecology to
638 trading flow networks of different products. We claim that the allometric
scaling exponent $\eta$ can be used to characterize the degree of
hierarchicality of a flow network, i.e., whether the trading products flow on
long hierarchical chains. Then, the flow networks of products with higher added
values and complexity, such as machinery&transport equipment with larger
exponents, are highlighted. These higher values indicate that their trade flow
networks are more hierarchical. As a result, without extra data such as global
input-output table, we can identify the product categories with higher
complexity and the relative importance of a country in the global value chain
solely by the trading network.


Quantum correlations in bulk properties of solids obtained from neutron
  scattering

  We demonstrate that inelastic neutron scattering technique can be used to
indirectly detect and measure the macroscopic quantum correlations quantified
by both entanglement and discord in a quantum magnetic material, VODPO4 . 1D2O.
The amount of quantum correlations is obtained 2 by analyzing the neutron
scattering data of magnetic excitations in isolated V4+ spin dimers. Our
quantitative analysis shows that the critical temperature of this material can
reach as high as Tc = 82.5 K, where quantum entanglement drops to zero.
Significantly, quantum discord can even survive at Tc = 300 K and may be used
in room temperature quantum devices. Taking into account the spin-orbit (SO)
coupling, we also predict theoretically that entanglement can be significantly
enhanced and the critical temperature Tc increases with the strength of
spin-orbit coupling.


Testing Einstein's Equivalence Principle with Supercluster Laniakea's
  Gravitational Field

  Comparing the parameterized post-Newtonian parameter $\gamma$ values for
different types of particles, or the same type of particles with different
energies is an important method to test the Einstein Equivalence Principle
(EEP). Assuming that the observed time delays are dominated by the
gravitational potential of the Laniakea supercluster of galaxies, better
results of EEP constraints can be obtained. In this paper, we apply photons
from three kinds of cosmic transients, including TeV blazars, gamma-ray bursts
as well as fast radio bursts to constrain EEP. With a gravitational field far
more stronger than a single galaxy, we obtain 4--5 orders of magnitude more
stringent than the pervious results.


Chemical Responsive Single Crystal Organic Magnet

  Materials that change their magnetic properties in response to the external
stimuli have long been of interest for their potential applicability in
magnetic storage device, spintronics and smart magnetic materials. Organic
materials are suitable candidates for such materials due to their chemical
diversity, flexibility and designablity. However, most methods used for
changing magnetism are inefficient or destructive to the magnetic material.
Hence there is a need for innovation in this field. Here we report
high-performance magnetic control of a gas-responsive single-molecule magnet
(SMM). The results exhibit that the magnetic properties of the SMM can be
significantly changed according to the gas environment it is in and some of the
magnetic states can be reversibly transformed or coexistent in the SMM through
artificial control. More importantly, the monocrystalline structure of the SMM
remains unchanged during the transformation process except for slight change of
the lattice constant. Thus, this work opens up new insights into the
stimuli-responsive magnetic materials which have great prospects for
application in artificial design magnetic network and also highlight their
potential as smart materials.


Vehicle Traffic Driven Camera Placement for Better Metropolis Security
  Surveillance

  Security surveillance is one of the most important issues in smart cities,
especially in an era of terrorism. Deploying a number of (video) cameras is a
common surveillance approach. Given the never-ending power offered by vehicles
to metropolises, exploiting vehicle traffic to design camera placement
strategies could potentially facilitate security surveillance. This article
constitutes the first effort toward building the linkage between vehicle
traffic and security surveillance, which is a critical problem for smart
cities. We expect our study could influence the decision making of surveillance
camera placement, and foster more research of principled ways of security
surveillance beneficial to our physical-world life. Code has been made publicly
available.


I Know What You See: Power Side-Channel Attack on Convolutional Neural
  Network Accelerators

  Deep learning has become the de-facto computational paradigm for various
kinds of perception problems, including many privacy-sensitive applications
such as online medical image analysis. No doubt to say, the data privacy of
these deep learning systems is a serious concern. Different from previous
research focusing on exploiting privacy leakage from deep learning models, in
this paper, we present the first attack on the implementation of deep learning
models. To be specific, we perform the attack on an FPGA-based convolutional
neural network accelerator and we manage to recover the input image from the
collected power traces without knowing the detailed parameters in the neural
network by utilizing the characteristics of the "line buffer" performing
convolution in the CNN accelerators. For the MNIST dataset, our power
side-channel attack is able to achieve up to 89% recognition accuracy.


Robust and Efficient Boosting Method using the Conditional Risk

  Well-known for its simplicity and effectiveness in classification, AdaBoost,
however, suffers from overfitting when class-conditional distributions have
significant overlap. Moreover, it is very sensitive to noise that appears in
the labels. This article tackles the above limitations simultaneously via
optimizing a modified loss function (i.e., the conditional risk). The proposed
approach has the following two advantages. (1) It is able to directly take into
account label uncertainty with an associated label confidence. (2) It
introduces a "trustworthiness" measure on training samples via the Bayesian
risk rule, and hence the resulting classifier tends to have finite sample
performance that is superior to that of the original AdaBoost when there is a
large overlap between class conditional distributions. Theoretical properties
of the proposed method are investigated. Extensive experimental results using
synthetic data and real-world data sets from UCI machine learning repository
are provided. The empirical study shows the high competitiveness of the
proposed method in predication accuracy and robustness when compared with the
original AdaBoost and several existing robust AdaBoost algorithms.


The core-degenerate scenario for the progenitors of type Ia supernovae

  The origin of the progenitors of type Ia supernovae (SNe Ia) is still
uncertain. The core-degenerate (CD) scenario has been proposed as an
alternative way for the production of SNe Ia. In this scenario, SNe Ia are
formed at the final stage of common-envelope evolution from a merger of a
carbon-oxygen white dwarf (CO WD) with the CO core of an asymptotic giant
branch companion. However, the birthrates of SNe Ia from this scenario are
still not well determined. In this work, we performed a detailed investigation
on the CD scenario based on a binary population synthesis approach. The SN Ia
delay times from this scenario are basically in the range of 90Myr-2500Myr,
mainly contributing to the observed SNe Ia with short and intermediate delay
times although this scenario can also produce some old SNe Ia. Meanwhile, our
work indicates that the Galactic birthrates of SNe Ia from this scenario are no
more than 20% of total SNe Ia due to more careful treatment of mass transfer.
Although the SN Ia birthrates in the present work are lower than those in Ilkov
& Soker, the CD scenario cannot be ruled out as a viable mechanism for the
formation of SNe Ia. Especially, SNe Ia with circumstellar material from this
scenario contribute to 0.7-10% of total SNe Ia, which means that the CD
scenario can reproduce the observed birthrates of SNe Ia like PTF 11kx. We also
found that SNe Ia happen systemically earlier for a high value of metallicity
and their birthrates increase with metallicity.


Carbon stars identified from LAMOST DR4 using Machine Learning

  In this work, we present a catalog of 2651 carbon stars from the fourth Data
Release (DR4) of the Large Sky Area Multi-Object Fiber Spectroscopy Telescope
(LAMOST). Using an efficient machine-learning algorithm, we find out these
stars from more than seven million spectra. As a by-product, 17 carbon-enhanced
metal-poor (CEMP) turnoff star candidates are also reported in this paper, and
they are preliminarily identified by their atmospheric parameters. Except for
176 stars that could not be given spectral types, we classify the other 2475
carbon stars into five subtypes including 864 C-H, 226 C-R, 400 C-J, 266 C-N,
and 719 barium stars based on a series of spectral features. Furthermore, we
divide the C-J stars into three subtypes of CJ( H), C-J(R), C-J(N), and about
90% of them are cool N-type stars as expected from previous literature. Beside
spectroscopic classification, we also match these carbon stars to multiple
broadband photometries. Using ultraviolet photometry data, we find that 25
carbon stars have FUV detections and they are likely to be in binary systems
with compact white dwarf companions.


Carbon stars from LAMOST DR2 data

  In this work, we present the new catalog of carbon stars from the LAMOST DR2
catalog. In total, 894 carbon stars are identified from multiple line indices
measured from the stellar spectra. Combining the CN bands in the red end with
\ctwo\ and other lines, we are able to identify the carbon stars. Moreover, we
also classify the carbon stars into spectral sub-types of \ch, \CR, and \cn.
These sub-types approximately show distinct features in the multi-dimensional
line indices, implying that in the future we can use them to identify carbon
stars from larger spectroscopic datasets. Meanwhile, from the line indices
space, while the \cn\ stars are clearly separated from the others, we find no
clear separation between \CR\ and \ch\ sub-types. The \CR\ and \ch\ stars seem
to smoothly transition from one to another. This may hint that the \CR\ and
\ch\ stars may not be different in their origins but look different in their
spectra because of different metallicity. Due to the relatively low spectral
resolution and lower signal-to-noise ratio, the ratio of $^{12}$C/$^{13}$C is
not measured and thus the \cj\ stars are not identified.


19 low mass hyper-velocity star candidates from the first data release
  of LAMOST survey

  Hyper-velocity stars are believed to be ejected out from the Galactic center
through dynamical interactions between (binary) stars and the central massive
black hole(s). In this paper, we report 19 low mass F/G/K type hyper-velocity
star candidates from over one mil- lion stars of the first data release of the
LAMOST general survey. We determine the unbound probability for each candidate
using a Monte-Carlo simulation by assuming a non-Gaussian proper-motion error
distribution, Gaussian heliocentric distance and radial velocity error dis-
tributions. The simulation results show that all the candidates have unbound
possibilities over 50% as expected, and one of them may even exceed escape
velocity with over 90% probabili- ty. In addition, we compare the metallicities
of our candidates with the metallicity distribution functions of the Galactic
bulge, disk, halo and globular cluster, and conclude that the Galactic bulge or
disk is likely the birth place for our candidates.


Tree-Structured Neural Machine for Linguistics-Aware Sentence Generation

  Different from other sequential data, sentences in natural language are
structured by linguistic grammars. Previous generative conversational models
with chain-structured decoder ignore this structure in human language and might
generate plausible responses with less satisfactory relevance and fluency. In
this study, we aim to incorporate the results from linguistic analysis into the
process of sentence generation for high-quality conversation generation.
Specifically, we use a dependency parser to transform each response sentence
into a dependency tree and construct a training corpus of sentence-tree pairs.
A tree-structured decoder is developed to learn the mapping from a sentence to
its tree, where different types of hidden states are used to depict the local
dependencies from an internal tree node to its children. For training
acceleration, we propose a tree canonicalization method, which transforms trees
into equivalent ternary trees. Then, with a proposed tree-structured search
method, the model is able to generate the most probable responses in the form
of dependency trees, which are finally flattened into sequences as the system
output. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed X2Tree framework
outperforms baseline methods over 11.15% increase of acceptance ratio.


Bound states in the continuum of fractional Schrödinger equation in
  the Earth's gravitational field and their effects in the presence of a
  minimal length: applications to distinguish ultralight particles

  In this paper, the influence of the fractional dimensions of the L\'evy path
under the Earth's gravitational field is studied, and the phase transitions of
energy and wave functions are obtained: the energy changes from discrete to
continuous and wave functions change from non-degenerate to degenerate when
dimension of L\'evy path becomes from integer to non-integer. By analyzing the
phase transitions, we solve two popular problems. First, we find an exotic way
to produce the bound states in the continuum (BICs), our approach only needs a
simple potential, and does not depend on interactions between particles.
Second, we address the continuity of the energy will become strong when the
mass of the particle becomes small. By deeply analyze, it can provide a way to
distinguish ultralight particles from others types in the Earth's gravitational
field, and five popular particles are discussed. In addition, we obtain
analytical expressions for the wave functions and energy in the Earth's
gravitational field in the circumstance of a fractional fractal dimensional
L\'evy path. Moreover, to consider the influence of the minimal length, we
analyze the phase transitions and the BICs in the presence of the minimal
length. We find the phenomenon energy shift do not exist, which is a common
phenomenon in the presence of the minimal length, and hence such above
phenomena can still be found. Finally, relations between our results and
existing results are discussed.


"Bilingual Expert" Can Find Translation Errors

  Recent advances in statistical machine translation via the adoption of neural
sequence-to-sequence models empower the end-to-end system to achieve
state-of-the-art in many WMT benchmarks. The performance of such machine
translation (MT) system is usually evaluated by automatic metric BLEU when the
golden references are provided for validation. However, for model inference or
production deployment, the golden references are prohibitively available or
require expensive human annotation with bilingual expertise. In order to
address the issue of quality evaluation (QE) without reference, we propose a
general framework for automatic evaluation of translation output for most WMT
quality evaluation tasks. We first build a conditional target language model
with a novel bidirectional transformer, named neural bilingual expert model,
which is pre-trained on large parallel corpora for feature extraction. For QE
inference, the bilingual expert model can simultaneously produce the joint
latent representation between the source and the translation, and real-valued
measurements of possible erroneous tokens based on the prior knowledge learned
from parallel data. Subsequently, the features will further be fed into a
simple Bi-LSTM predictive model for quality evaluation. The experimental
results show that our approach achieves the state-of-the-art performance in the
quality estimation track of WMT 2017/2018.


Hybrid entanglement of three quantum memories with three photons

  Quantum network has significant applications both practically and
fundamentally. A hybrid architecture with photons and stationary nodes is
highly promising. So far, experimental realizations are limited to two nodes
with two photons. Going beyond state of the art by entangling many photons with
many quantum nodes is highly appreciated. Here, we report an experiment
realizing hybrid entanglement between three photons and three atomic-ensemble
quantum memories. We make use of three similar setups, in each of which one
pair of photon-memory entanglement with high overall efficiency is created via
cavity enhancement. Through three-photon interference, the three quantum
memories get entangled with the three photons. Via measuring the photons and
applying feedforward, we heraldedly entangle the three memories. Our work
demonstrates the largest size of hybrid memory-photon entanglement, which may
be employed as a build block to construct larger and complex quantum network.


ConvPath: A Software Tool for Lung Adenocarcinoma Digital Pathological
  Image Analysis Aided by Convolutional Neural Network

  The spatial distributions of different types of cells could reveal a cancer
cell growth pattern, its relationships with the tumor microenvironment and the
immune response of the body, all of which represent key hallmarks of cancer.
However, manually recognizing and localizing all the cells in pathology slides
are almost impossible. In this study, we developed an automated cell type
classification pipeline, ConvPath, which includes nuclei segmentation,
convolutional neural network-based tumor, stromal and lymphocytes
classification, and extraction of tumor microenvironment related features for
lung cancer pathology images. The overall classification accuracy is 92.9% and
90.1% in training and independent testing datasets, respectively. By
identifying cells and classifying cell types, this pipeline can convert a
pathology image into a spatial map of tumor, stromal and lymphocyte cells. From
this spatial map, we can extracted features that characterize the tumor
micro-environment. Based on these features, we developed an image feature-based
prognostic model and validated the model in two independent cohorts. The
predicted risk group serves as an independent prognostic factor, after
adjusting for clinical variables that include age, gender, smoking status, and
stage.


Entanglement of two quantum memories via metropolitan-scale fibers

  Quantum internet will enable a number of revolutionary applications, such as
distributed quantum computing, large-scale quantum communication and
cooperative operation of atomic clocks. It relies on entanglement of remote
quantum memories over long distances. Yet, maximal reported distance achieved
so far was merely about 1 km and experimental challenges for long distance
remains. Here, by using cavity enhancement to create bright atom-photon
entanglement and harnessing quantum frequency conversion to shift the atomic
wavelength to telecom, we create atom-atom entanglement over 22 km
field-deployed fibers via two-photon interference. Moreover, by exploiting a
concatenated phase-locking scheme, we use single-photon interference to
entangle two atomic ensembles by transmission over 50 km coiled fibers. Our
work demonstrates full-functional segments for atomic quantum networks at
metropolitan scale, and pave the way towards establishing atomic entanglement
over many nodes and over much longer distance in a scalable way.


