Outlier Robust ICP for Minimizing Fractional RMSD

  We describe a variation of the iterative closest point (ICP) algorithm for
aligning two point sets under a set of transformations. Our algorithm is
superior to previous algorithms because (1) in determining the optimal
alignment, it identifies and discards likely outliers in a statistically robust
manner, and (2) it is guaranteed to converge to a locally optimal solution. To
this end, we formalize a new distance measure, fractional root mean squared
distance (frmsd), which incorporates the fraction of inliers into the distance
function. We lay out a specific implementation, but our framework can easily
incorporate most techniques and heuristics from modern registration algorithms.
We experimentally validate our algorithm against previous techniques on 2 and 3
dimensional data exposed to a variety of outlier types.


Performance Measures and a Data Set for Multi-Target, Multi-Camera
  Tracking

  To help accelerate progress in multi-target, multi-camera tracking systems,
we present (i) a new pair of precision-recall measures of performance that
treats errors of all types uniformly and emphasizes correct identification over
sources of error; (ii) the largest fully-annotated and calibrated data set to
date with more than 2 million frames of 1080p, 60fps video taken by 8 cameras
observing more than 2,700 identities over 85 minutes; and (iii) a reference
software system as a comparison baseline. We show that (i) our measures
properly account for bottom-line identity match performance in the multi-camera
setting; (ii) our data set poses realistic challenges to current trackers; and
(iii) the performance of our system is comparable to the state of the art.


Features for Multi-Target Multi-Camera Tracking and Re-Identification

  Multi-Target Multi-Camera Tracking (MTMCT) tracks many people through video
taken from several cameras. Person Re-Identification (Re-ID) retrieves from a
gallery images of people similar to a person query image. We learn good
features for both MTMCT and Re-ID with a convolutional neural network. Our
contributions include an adaptive weighted triplet loss for training and a new
technique for hard-identity mining. Our method outperforms the state of the art
both on the DukeMTMC benchmarks for tracking, and on the Market-1501 and
DukeMTMC-ReID benchmarks for Re-ID. We examine the correlation between good
Re-ID and good MTMCT scores, and perform ablation studies to elucidate the
contributions of the main components of our system. Code is available.


Describing many-body localized systems in thermal environments

  In this work we formulate an efficient method for the description of
many-body localized systems in weak contact with thermal environments at
temperature $T$. For this purpose we exploit the representation of the system
in terms of quasi-local integrals of motion ($l$-bits) to derive a quantum
master equation using Born-Markov approximations. We show how this equation can
be treated by using quantum-jump Monte-Carlo techniques as well as by deriving
approximate kinetic equations of motion. As an example, we consider the
one-dimensional Anderson model for spinless fermions including also
nearest-neighbor interactions, which we diagonalize approximately by employing
a recently proposed method valid in the limit of strong disorder and weak
interactions. Coupling the system to a global thermal bath, we study the
transport between two leads with different chemical potentials at both of its
ends. We find that the temperature-dependent current is captured by an
interaction-dependent version of Mott's law for variable range hopping, where
transport is enhanced/lowered depending on whether the interactions are
attractive or repulsive, respectively. We interpret these results in terms of
spatio-energetic correlations between the $l$-bits.


PRISM (Polarized Radiation Imaging and Spectroscopy Mission): An
  Extended White Paper

  PRISM (Polarized Radiation Imaging and Spectroscopy Mission) was proposed to
ESA in May 2013 as a large-class mission for investigating within the framework
of the ESA Cosmic Vision program a set of important scientific questions that
require high resolution, high sensitivity, full-sky observations of the sky
emission at wavelengths ranging from millimeter-wave to the far-infrared.
PRISM's main objective is to explore the distant universe, probing cosmic
history from very early times until now as well as the structures, distribution
of matter, and velocity flows throughout our Hubble volume. PRISM will survey
the full sky in a large number of frequency bands in both intensity and
polarization and will measure the absolute spectrum of sky emission more than
three orders of magnitude better than COBE FIRAS. The aim of this Extended
White Paper is to provide a more detailed overview of the highlights of the new
science that will be made possible by PRISM


Exploring Cosmic Origins with CORE: Cosmological Parameters

  We forecast the main cosmological parameter constraints achievable with the
CORE space mission which is dedicated to mapping the polarisation of the Cosmic
Microwave Background (CMB). CORE was recently submitted in response to ESA's
fifth call for medium-sized mission proposals (M5). Here we report the results
from our pre-submission study of the impact of various instrumental options, in
particular the telescope size and sensitivity level, and review the great,
transformative potential of the mission as proposed. Specifically, we assess
the impact on a broad range of fundamental parameters of our Universe as a
function of the expected CMB characteristics, with other papers in the series
focusing on controlling astrophysical and instrumental residual systematics. In
this paper, we assume that only a few central CORE frequency channels are
usable for our purpose, all others being devoted to the cleaning of
astrophysical contaminants. On the theoretical side, we assume LCDM as our
general framework and quantify the improvement provided by CORE over the
current constraints from the Planck 2015 release. We also study the joint
sensitivity of CORE and of future Baryon Acoustic Oscillation and Large Scale
Structure experiments like DESI and Euclid. Specific constraints on the physics
of inflation are presented in another paper of the series. In addition to the
six parameters of the base LCDM, which describe the matter content of a
spatially flat universe with adiabatic and scalar primordial fluctuations from
inflation, we derive the precision achievable on parameters like those
describing curvature, neutrino physics, extra light relics, primordial helium
abundance, dark matter annihilation, recombination physics, variation of
fundamental constants, dark energy, modified gravity, reionization and cosmic
birefringence. (ABRIDGED)


Exploring Cosmic Origins with CORE: Inflation

  We forecast the scientific capabilities to improve our understanding of
cosmic inflation of CORE, a proposed CMB space satellite submitted in response
to the ESA fifth call for a medium-size mission opportunity. The CORE satellite
will map the CMB anisotropies in temperature and polarization in 19 frequency
channels spanning the range 60-600 GHz. CORE will have an aggregate noise
sensitivity of $1.7 \mu$K$\cdot \,$arcmin and an angular resolution of 5' at
200 GHz. We explore the impact of telescope size and noise sensitivity on the
inflation science return by making forecasts for several instrumental
configurations. This study assumes that the lower and higher frequency channels
suffice to remove foreground contaminations and complements other related
studies of component separation and systematic effects, which will be reported
in other papers of the series "Exploring Cosmic Origins with CORE." We forecast
the capability to determine key inflationary parameters, to lower the detection
limit for the tensor-to-scalar ratio down to the $10^{-3}$ level, to chart the
landscape of single field slow-roll inflationary models, to constrain the epoch
of reheating, thus connecting inflation to the standard radiation-matter
dominated Big Bang era, to reconstruct the primordial power spectrum, to
constrain the contribution from isocurvature perturbations to the $10^{-3}$
level, to improve constraints on the cosmic string tension to a level below the
presumptive GUT scale, and to improve the current measurements of primordial
non-Gaussianities down to the $f_{NL}^{\rm local} < 1$ level. For all the
models explored, CORE alone will improve significantly on the present
constraints on the physics of inflation. Its capabilities will be further
enhanced by combining with complementary future cosmological observations.


PRISM (Polarized Radiation Imaging and Spectroscopy Mission): A White
  Paper on the Ultimate Polarimetric Spectro-Imaging of the Microwave and
  Far-Infrared Sky

  PRISM (Polarized Radiation Imaging and Spectroscopy Mission) was proposed to
ESA in response to the Call for White Papers for the definition of the L2 and
L3 Missions in the ESA Science Programme. PRISM would have two instruments: (1)
an imager with a 3.5m mirror (cooled to 4K for high performance in the
far-infrared---that is, in the Wien part of the CMB blackbody spectrum), and
(2) an Fourier Transform Spectrometer (FTS) somewhat like the COBE FIRAS
instrument but over three orders of magnitude more sensitive. Highlights of the
new science (beyond the obvious target of B-modes from gravity waves generated
during inflation) made possible by these two instruments working in tandem
include: (1) the ultimate galaxy cluster survey gathering 10e6 clusters
extending to large redshift and measuring their peculiar velocities and
temperatures (through the kSZ effect and relativistic corrections to the
classic y-distortion spectrum, respectively) (2) a detailed investigation into
the nature of the cosmic infrared background (CIB) consisting of at present
unresolved dusty high-z galaxies, where most of the star formation in the
universe took place, (3) searching for distortions from the perfect CMB
blackbody spectrum, which will probe a large number of otherwise inaccessible
effects (e.g., energy release through decaying dark matter, the primordial
power spectrum on very small scales where measurements today are impossible due
to erasure from Silk damping and contamination from non-linear cascading of
power from larger length scales). These are but a few of the highlights of the
new science that will be made possible with PRISM.


Exploring cosmic origins with CORE: gravitational lensing of the CMB

  Lensing of the CMB is now a well-developed probe of large-scale clustering
over a broad range of redshifts. By exploiting the non-Gaussian imprints of
lensing in the polarization of the CMB, the CORE mission can produce a clean
map of the lensing deflections over nearly the full-sky. The number of high-S/N
modes in this map will exceed current CMB lensing maps by a factor of 40, and
the measurement will be sample-variance limited on all scales where linear
theory is valid. Here, we summarise this mission product and discuss the
science that it will enable. For example, the summed mass of neutrinos will be
determined to an accuracy of 17 meV combining CORE lensing and CMB two-point
information with contemporaneous BAO measurements, three times smaller than the
minimum total mass allowed by neutrino oscillations. In the search for B-mode
polarization from primordial gravitational waves with CORE, lens-induced
B-modes will dominate over instrument noise, limiting constraints on the
gravitational wave power spectrum amplitude. With lensing reconstructed by
CORE, one can "delens" the observed polarization internally, reducing the
lensing B-mode power by 60%. This improves to 70% by combining lensing and CIB
measurements from CORE, reducing the error on the gravitational wave amplitude
by 2.5 compared to no delensing (in the null hypothesis). Lensing measurements
from CORE will allow calibration of the halo masses of the 40000 galaxy
clusters that it will find, with constraints dominated by the clean
polarization-based estimators. CORE can accurately remove Galactic emission
from CMB maps with its 19 frequency channels. We present initial findings that
show that residual Galactic foreground contamination will not be a significant
source of bias for lensing power spectrum measurements with CORE. [abridged]


Exploring cosmic origins with CORE: effects of observer peculiar motion

  We discuss the effects on the CMB, CIB, and thermal SZ effect due to the
peculiar motion of an observer with respect to the CMB rest frame, which
induces boosting effects. We investigate the scientific perspectives opened by
future CMB space missions, focussing on the CORE proposal. The improvements in
sensitivity offered by a mission like CORE, together with its high resolution
over a wide frequency range, will provide a more accurate estimate of the CMB
dipole. The extension of boosting effects to polarization and
cross-correlations will enable a more robust determination of purely
velocity-driven effects that are not degenerate with the intrinsic CMB dipole,
allowing us to achieve a S/N ratio of 13; this improves on the Planck detection
and essentially equals that of an ideal cosmic-variance-limited experiment up
to a multipole l of 2000. Precise inter-frequency calibration will offer the
opportunity to constrain or even detect CMB spectral distortions, particularly
from the cosmological reionization, because of the frequency dependence of the
dipole spectrum, without resorting to precise absolute calibration. The
expected improvement with respect to COBE-FIRAS in the recovery of distortion
parameters (in principle, a factor of several hundred for an ideal experiment
with the CORE configuration) ranges from a factor of several up to about 50,
depending on the quality of foreground removal and relative calibration. Even
for 1% accuracy in both foreground removal and relative calibration at an
angular scale of 1 deg, we find that dipole analyses for a mission like CORE
will be able to improve the recovery of the CIB spectrum amplitude by a factor
of 17 in comparison with current results based on FIRAS. In addition to the
scientific potential of a mission like CORE for these analyses, synergies with
other planned and ongoing projects are also discussed.


Planck 2015 results. VI. LFI mapmaking

  This paper describes the mapmaking procedure applied to Planck LFI (Low
Frequency Instrument) data. The mapmaking step takes as input the calibrated
timelines and pointing information. The main products are sky maps of $I,Q$,
and $U$ Stokes components. For the first time, we present polarization maps at
LFI frequencies. The mapmaking algorithm is based on a destriping technique,
enhanced with a noise prior. The Galactic region is masked to reduce errors
arising from bandpass mismatch and high signal gradients. We apply horn-uniform
radiometer weights to reduce effects of beam shape mismatch. The algorithm is
the same as used for the 2013 release, apart from small changes in parameter
settings. We validate the procedure through simulations. Special emphasis is
put on the control of systematics, which is particularly important for accurate
polarization analysis. We also produce low-resolution versions of the maps, and
corresponding noise covariance matrices. These serve as input in later analysis
steps and parameter estimation. The noise covariance matrices are validated
through noise Monte Carlo simulations. The residual noise in the map products
is characterized through analysis of half-ring maps, noise covariance matrices,
and simulations.


Planck 2015 results. XII. Full Focal Plane simulations

  We present the 8th Full Focal Plane simulation set (FFP8), deployed in
support of the Planck 2015 results. FFP8 consists of 10 fiducial mission
realizations reduced to 18144 maps, together with the most massive suite of
Monte Carlo realizations of instrument noise and CMB ever generated, comprising
$10^4$ mission realizations reduced to about $10^6$ maps. The resulting maps
incorporate the dominant instrumental, scanning, and data analysis effects;
remaining subdominant effects will be included in future updates. Generated at
a cost of some 25 million CPU-hours spread across multiple
high-performance-computing (HPC) platforms, FFP8 is used for the validation and
verification of analysis algorithms, as well as their implementations, and for
removing biases from and quantifying uncertainties in the results of analyses
of the real data.


Primordial Non-Gaussianity

  Our current understanding of the Universe is established through the pristine
measurements of structure in the cosmic microwave background (CMB) and the
distribution and shapes of galaxies tracing the large scale structure (LSS) of
the Universe. One key ingredient that underlies cosmological observables is
that the field that sources the observed structure is assumed to be initially
Gaussian with high precision. Nevertheless, a minimal deviation from
Gaussianityis perhaps the most robust theoretical prediction of models that
explain the observed Universe; itis necessarily present even in the simplest
scenarios. In addition, most inflationary models produce far higher levels of
non-Gaussianity. Since non-Gaussianity directly probes the dynamics in the
early Universe, a detection would present a monumental discovery in cosmology,
providing clues about physics at energy scales as high as the GUT scale.


Planck Early Results. VII. The Early Release Compact Source Catalog

  (Abridged) A brief description of the methodology of construction, contents
and usage of the Planck Early Release Compact Source Catalogue (ERCSC),
including the Early Cold Cores (ECC) and the Early Sunyaev-Zeldovich (ESZ)
cluster catalogue is provided. The catalogue is based on data that consist of
mapping the entire sky once and 60% of the sky a second time by Planck, thereby
comprising the first high sensitivity radio/submillimetre observations of the
entire sky. A Monte-Carlo algorithm based on the injection and extraction of
artificial sources into the Planck maps was implemented to select reliable
sources among all extracted candidates such that the cumulative reliability of
the catalogue is >=90%. The 10sigma photometric flux density limit of the
catalogue at |b|>30 deg is 0.49, 1.0, 0.67, 0.5, 0.33, 0.28, 0.25, 0.47 and
0.82 Jy at each of the nine frequencies between 30 and 857 GHz. Sources which
are up to a factor of ~2 fainter than this limit, and which are present in
"clean" regions of the Galaxy where the sky background due to emission from the
interstellar medium is low, are included in the ERCSC if they meet the high
reliability criterion. The Planck ERCSC sources have known associations to
stars with dust shells, stellar cores, radio galaxies, blazars, infrared
luminous galaxies and Galactic interstellar medium features. A significant
fraction of unclassified sources are also present in the catalogs. In addition,
two early release catalogs that contain 915 cold molecular cloud core
candidates and 189 SZ cluster candidates that have been generated using
multi-frequency algorithms are presented. The entire source list, with more
than 15000 unique sources, is ripe for follow-up characterisation with
Herschel, ATCA, VLA, SOFIA, ALMA and other ground-based observing facilities.


Planck intermediate results. XIII. Constraints on peculiar velocities

  Using \Planck\ data combined with the Meta Catalogue of X-ray detected
Clusters of galaxies (MCXC), we address the study of peculiar motions by
searching for evidence of the kinetic Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect (kSZ). By
implementing various filters designed to extract the kSZ generated at the
positions of the clusters, we obtain consistent constraints on the radial
peculiar velocity average, root mean square (rms), and local bulk flow
amplitude at different depths. For the whole cluster sample of average redshift
0.18, the measured average radial peculiar velocity with respect to the cosmic
microwave background (CMB) radiation at that redshift, i.e., the kSZ monopole,
amounts to $72 \pm 60$ km s$^{-1}$. This constitutes less than 1% of the
relative Hubble velocity of the cluster sample with respect to our local CMB
frame. While the linear $\Lambda$CDM prediction for the typical cluster radial
velocity rms at $z=0.15$ is close to 230km s$^{-1}$, the upper limit imposed by
\Planck\ data on the cluster subsample corresponds to 800 km s$^{-1}$ at 95%
confidence level, i.e., about three times higher. \Planck\ data also set strong
constraints on the local bulk flow in volumes centred on the Local Group. There
is no detection of bulk flow as measured in any comoving sphere extending to
the maximum redshift covered by the cluster sample. A blind search for bulk
flows in this sample has an upper limit of 254 km s$^{-1}$ (95% confidence
level) dominated by CMB confusion and instrumental noise, indicating that the
Universe is largely homogeneous on Gpc scales. In this context, in conjunction
with supernova observations, \Planck\ is able to rule out a large class of
inhomogeneous void models as alternatives to dark energy or modified gravity.
The \Planck\ constraints on peculiar velocities and bulk flows are thus
consistent with the $\Lambda$CDM scenario.


Planck intermediate results. XXXVII. Evidence of unbound gas from the
  kinetic Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect

  By looking at the kinetic Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect (kSZ) in Planck nominal
mission data, we present a significant detection of baryons participating in
large-scale bulk flows around central galaxies (CGs) at redshift $z\approx
0.1$. We estimate the pairwise momentum of the kSZ temperature fluctuations at
the positions of the CGC (Central Galaxy Catalogue) samples extracted from
Sloan Digital Sky Survey (DR7) data. For the foreground-cleaned maps, we find
$1.8$-$2.5\sigma$ detections of the kSZ signal, which are consistent with the
kSZ evidence found in individual Planck raw frequency maps, although lower than
found in the WMAP-9yr W band ($3.3\sigma$). We further reconstruct the peculiar
velocity field from the CG density field, and compute for the first time the
cross-correlation function between kSZ temperature fluctuations and estimates
of CG radial peculiar velocities. This correlation function yields a
$3.0$-$3.7$$\sigma$ detection of the peculiar motion of extended gas on Mpc
scales, in flows correlated up to distances of 80-100 $h^{-1}$ Mpc. Both the
pairwise momentum estimates and kSZ temperature-velocity field correlation find
evidence for kSZ signatures out to apertures of 8 arcmin and beyond,
corresponding to a physical radius of $> 1$ Mpc, more than twice the mean
virial radius of halos. This is consistent with the predictions from hydro
simulations that most of the baryons are outside the virialized halos. We fit a
simple model, in which the temperature-velocity cross-correlation is
proportional to the signal seen in a semi-analytic model built upon N-body
simulations, and interpret the proportionality constant as an "effective"
optical depth to Thomson scattering. We find $\tau_T=(1.4\pm0.5)\times
10^{-4}$; the simplest interpretation of this measurement is that much of the
gas is in a diffuse phase, which contributes little signal to X-ray or thermal
SZ observations.


