Theoretical and Empirical Analysis of a Parallel Boosting Algorithm

  Many real-world problems involve massive amounts of data. Under these
circumstances learning algorithms often become prohibitively expensive, making
scalability a pressing issue to be addressed. A common approach is to perform
sampling to reduce the size of the dataset and enable efficient learning.
Alternatively, one customizes learning algorithms to achieve scalability. In
either case, the key challenge is to obtain algorithmic efficiency without
compromising the quality of the results. In this paper we discuss a
meta-learning algorithm (PSBML) which combines features of parallel algorithms
with concepts from ensemble and boosting methodologies to achieve the desired
scalability property. We present both theoretical and empirical analyses which
show that PSBML preserves a critical property of boosting, specifically,
convergence to a distribution centered around the margin. We then present
additional empirical analyses showing that this meta-level algorithm provides a
general and effective framework that can be used in combination with a variety
of learning classifiers. We perform extensive experiments to investigate the
tradeoff achieved between scalability and accuracy, and robustness to noise, on
both synthetic and real-world data. These empirical results corroborate our
theoretical analysis, and demonstrate the potential of PSBML in achieving
scalability without sacrificing accuracy.


Network-based Anomaly Detection for Insider Trading

  Insider trading is one of the numerous white collar crimes that can
contribute to the instability of the economy. Traditionally, the detection of
illegal insider trades has been a human-driven process. In this paper, we
collect the insider tradings made available by the US Securities and Exchange
Commissions (SEC) through the EDGAR system, with the aim of initiating an
automated large-scale and data-driven approach to the problem of identifying
illegal insider tradings. The goal of the study is the identification of
interesting patterns, which can be indicators of potential anomalies. We use
the collected data to construct networks that capture the relationship between
trading behaviors of insiders. We explore different ways of building networks
from insider trading data, and argue for a need of a structure that is capable
of capturing higher order relationships among traders. Our results suggest the
discovery of interesting patterns.


A New Framework for Centrality Measures in Multiplex Networks

  The non-trivial structure of such complex systems makes the analysis of their
collective behavior a challenge. The problem is even more difficult when the
information is distributed across networks (e.g., communication networks in
different media); in this case, it becomes impossible to have a complete, or
even partial picture, if situations are analyzed separately within each network
due to sparsity. A multiplex network is well-suited to model the complexity of
this kind of systems by preserving the semantics associated with each network.
Centrality measures are fundamental for the identification of key players, but
existing approaches are typically designed to capture a predefined aspect of
the system, ignoring or merging the semantics of the individual layers.


Graph-based Selective Outlier Ensembles

  An ensemble technique is characterized by the mechanism that generates the
components and by the mechanism that combines them. A common way to achieve the
consensus is to enable each component to equally participate in the aggregation
process. A problem with this approach is that poor components are likely to
negatively affect the quality of the consensus result. To address this issue,
alternatives have been explored in the literature to build selective classifier
and cluster ensembles, where only a subset of the components contributes to the
computation of the consensus. Of the family of ensemble methods, outlier
ensembles are the least studied. Only recently, the selection problem for
outlier ensembles has been discussed. In this work we define a new graph-based
class of ranking selection methods. A method in this class is characterized by
two main steps: (1) Mapping the rankings onto a graph structure; and (2) Mining
the resulting graph to identify a subset of rankings. We define a specific
instance of the graph-based ranking selection class. Specifically, we map the
problem of selecting ensemble components onto a mining problem in a graph. An
extensive evaluation was conducted on a variety of heterogeneous data and
methods. Our empirical results show that our approach outperforms
state-of-the-art selective outlier ensemble techniques.


