A Deterministic Equivalent for the Analysis of Small Cell Networks

  To properly reflect the main purpose of this work, we have changed the paper
title to: A Deterministic Equivalent for the Analysis of Non-Gaussian
Correlated MIMO Multiple Access Channels


Border Effect of Complex Network: An analysis on the cooperation network
  of movie stars across different regions

  People always carry out social activities within certain geographic space.
The geographic boundary likes national boundaries and provincial boundaries
functions as dividing policies, distributing administrative resources, defining
the scope of application of laws and regulations or even the boundary of
cultural region, producing fundamental influence on lifestyle. Network analysis
is a powerful tool to abstract complex system. In this article, we used network
method to understand changes of cooperation network in movie industry and
effect of geographical boundary.


Direct Evidence of Superconductivity with Twofold Symmetry in Bi2Te3
  Thin Film Deposited on FeTe0.55Se0.45

  Topological superconductor is a timely and frontier topic in condensed matter
physics. In superconducting state, an order parameter will be established with
the basic or subsidiary symmetry of the crystalline lattice. In doped Bi2Se3
with a basic threefold symmetry, it was predicted however that
superconductivity may have a twofold symmetry of odd parity. Here we report the
proximity effect induced superconductivity in Bi2Te3 thin film on top of an
iron-based superconductor FeTe0.55Se0.45. By using the quasiparticle
interference technique, we demonstrate clear evidence of twofold symmetry of
the superconducting gap. The gap minimum is along one of the main crystalline
axis following the so-called Delta_4y notation. This is also accompanied by the
elongated vortex shape mapped out by the density of states within the
superconducting gap, with probably the Majorana mode within the vortex core.
Our results reveal the direct evidence of superconductivity with odd parity in
Bi2Te3 thin film.


Quantum Jumps between Macroscopic Quantum States of a Superconducting
  Qubit Coupled to a Microscopic Two-Level System

  We report the observation of quantum jumps between macroscopic quantum states
in a superconducting phase qubit coupled to the two-level systems in the
Josephson tunnel junction, and all key features of quantum jumps are confirmed
in the experiments. Moreover, quantum jumps can be used to calibrate such
two-level systems, which are believed to be one of the main decoherence sources
in Josephson devices.


Design and Fabrication of a Novel Micro Electromagnetic Actuator

  The present study presents a new micro electromagnetic actuator utilizing a
PDMS membrane with a magnet. The actuator is integrated with micro coils to
electromagnetically actuate the membrane and results in a large deflection. The
micro electromagnetic actuator proposed in this study is easily fabricated and
is readily integrated with existing bio-medical chips due to its planar
structure.


Optimal Storage and Retrieval of Single-Photon Waveforms

  We report an experimental demonstration of optimal storage and retrieval of
heralded single-photon wave packets using electromagnetically induced
transparency (EIT) in cold atoms at a high optical depth. We obtain an optimal
storage efficiency of (49+/-3)% for single-photon waveforms with a temporal
likeness of 96%. Our result brings the EIT quantum light-matter interface close
to practical quantum information applications.


The mode switching of PSR B2020+28

  This paper reports on polarimetric radiation properties based on the
switching modes of normal PSR B2020+28 by analysing the data acquired from the
Nanshan 25-m radio telescope at 1556 MHz. With nearly 8 hours quasi-continuous
observation, the data presented some striking and updated phenomena. The change
of relative intensity between the leading and trailing components is the
predominant feature of mode switching. The intensity ratio between the leading
and trailing components are measured for the individual profiles averaged over
30 seconds. It is found that there is an excess of high ratios over the normal
distribution, which indicates that two modes exist in the pulsar. The
distribution of abnormal mode has a narrower width indicating that the abnormal
mode is more stable than the normal mode. A total of 76 mode switching events
are detected in our data. It spends 89\% in the normal mode and 11\% in the
abnormal mode. The intrinsic distributions of mode timescales are constrained
with power-law distributions. The significant difference in the index of the
duration distribution between normal and abnormal modes possibly indicates that
the timescale for the abnormal mode to get stable is shorter than that for the
normal mode. The frequent switching between both modes may indicate that the
oscillations between different magnetospheric states are rapid.


Direct visualization of sign reversal s^+- superconducting gaps in
  FeTe0.55Se0.45

  In many unconventional superconductors, the pairing of electrons is driven by
the repulsive interaction, which leads to the sign reversal of superconducting
gaps along the Fermi surfaces (FS) or between them. However, to measure this
sign change is not easy and straightforward. It is known that, in
superconductors with sign reversal gaps, non-magnetic impurities can break
Cooper pairs leading to the quasiparticle density of states in the
superconducting state. The standing waves of these quasiparticles will
interfere each other leading to the quasiparticle interference (QPI) pattern
which carries the phase message reflecting also the superconducting gap
structure. Based on the recently proposed defect-bound-state QPI technique, we
explore the applicability of this technique to a typical iron based
superconductor FeTe$_{0.55}$Se$_{0.45}$ with roughly equivalent gap values on
the electron and hole pockets connected by the wave vector q_2=(0,\pi). It is
found that, on the negative energy side, with the energy slightly below the gap
value, the phase reference quantity $|g(q,-E)|\cos(\theta_{q,+E}-\theta_{q,-E})
becomes negative and the amplitude is strongly enhanced with the scattering
vector q_2, but that corresponding to the scattering between the
electron-electron pockets, namely q_3=(\pi,\pi), keeps all positive. This is
well consistent with the theoretical expectation of the s^+- pairing gap and
thus serves as a direct visualization of the sign reversal gaps. This
experimental observation is also supported by the theoretical calculations with
the Fermi surface structure and s^+- pairing gap.


The structural and electronic properties of Stone-Wales defective
  zigzag/armchair antimonene nanotubes: First-principles calculations

  Geometric optimization and electronic properties of Stone-Wales defective
antimonene nanotubes are calculated by the method of first -principle
calculations based on density functional theory. Various nanotubes are
investigated according to the possible orientations of zigzag/armchair
nanostructures when Stone-Wales defects are formed. The band structures,
partial density of states and atomic orbitals are calculated to reveal the
mechanism of influence of Stone-Wales defects on antimonene nanotubes. When the
structure of antimonene changes from monolayer to tube, the indirect gap
semiconductor antimonene transforms to a direct gap one. Moreover, the
character of direct band gap for the antimonene nanotube is preserved with the
Stone-Wales defect forming, while the energy of conduction band bottoms change
due to the intervene of the defect energy level in the band gaps. These results
may provide valuable references to the development and design of novel
nanotubes based on antimonene nanotubes.


Structured Beam Generation with a Single Metasurface

  Despite a plethora of applications ranging from quantum memories to
high-resolution lithography, the current technologies to generate vector vortex
beams (VVBs) suffer from less efficient energy use, poor resolution, low damage
threshold, bulky size and complicated experimental setup, preventing further
practical applications. We propose and experimentally demonstrate an approach
to generate VVBs with a single metasurface by locally tailoring phase and
transverse polarization distribution. This method features the spin-orbit
coupling and the superposition of the converted part with an additional phase
pickup and the residual part without a phase change. By maintaining the equal
components for the converted part and the residual part, the cylindrically
polarized vortex beams carrying orbital angular momentum are experimentally
demonstrated based on a single metasurface at subwavelength scale. The proposed
approach provides unprecedented freedom in engineering the properties of
optical waves with the high-efficiency light utilization and a minimal
footprint.


Recent Developments and Future Challenges in Medical Mixed Reality

  Mixed Reality (MR) is of increasing interest within technology-driven modern
medicine but is not yet used in everyday practice. This situation is changing
rapidly, however, and this paper explores the emergence of MR technology and
the importance of its utility within medical applications. A classification of
medical MR has been obtained by applying an unbiased text mining method to a
database of 1,403 relevant research papers published over the last two decades.
The classification results reveal a taxonomy for the development of medical MR
research during this period as well as suggesting future trends. We then use
the classification to analyse the technology and applications developed in the
last five years. Our objective is to aid researchers to focus on the areas
where technology advancements in medical MR are most needed, as well as
providing medical practitioners with a useful source of reference.


Context-Aware Mixed Reality: A Framework for Ubiquitous Interaction

  Mixed Reality (MR) is a powerful interactive technology that yields new types
of user experience. We present a semantic based interactive MR framework that
exceeds the current geometry level approaches, a step change in generating
high-level context-aware interactions. Our key insight is to build semantic
understanding in MR that not only can greatly enhance user experience through
object-specific behaviours, but also pave the way for solving complex
interaction design challenges. The framework generates semantic properties of
the real world environment through dense scene reconstruction and deep image
understanding. We demonstrate our approach with a material-aware prototype
system for generating context-aware physical interactions between the real and
the virtual objects. Quantitative and qualitative evaluations are carried out
and the results show that the framework delivers accurate and fast semantic
information in interactive MR environment, providing effective semantic level
interactions.


Fe-vacancy order and superconductivity in PbO-type tetragonal
  β-Fe1-xSe

  Several superconducting transition temperatures in the range of 30-40 K were
reported in the recently discovered intercalated FeSe sytem (A1-xFe2-ySe2, A =
K, Rb, Cs, Tl). Although the superconducting phases were not yet conclusively
decided, more than one magnetic phase with particular orders of iron vacancy
and/or potassium vacancy were identified, and some were argued to be the parent
phase. Here we show the discovery of the presence and ordering of iron vacancy
in nonintercalated FeSe (PbO-type tetragonal {\beta}-Fe1-xSe). Three types of
iron-vacancy order were found through analytical electron microscopy, and one
was identified to be nonsuperconducting and magnetic at low temperature. This
discovery suggests that the rich-phases found in A1-xFe2-ySe2 are not exclusive
in Fe-Se related superconductors. In addition, the magnetic {\beta}-Fe1-xSe
phases with particular iron-vacancy orders are more likely to be the parent
phase of FeSe superconducting system, instead of the previously assigned
{\beta}-Fe1+{\delta}Te.


Fabrication and superconductivity of NaxTaS2 crystals

  In this paper we report the growth and superconductivity of $Na_xTaS_2$
crystals. The structural data deduced from X-ray diffraction pattern shows that
the sample has the same structure as $2H-TaS_2$. A series of crystals with
different superconducting transition temperatures ($T_c$) ranging from 2.5 K to
4.4 K were obtained. It is found that the $T_c$ rises with the increase of $Na$
content determined by Energy-Dispersive x-ray microanalysis(EDX) of Scanning
Electron Microscope (SEM) on these crystals. Compared with the resistivity
curve of un-intercalated sample $2H-TaS_2$ ($T_c$ = 0.8 K, $T_{CDW} \approx$ 70
K), no signal of charge density wave (CDW) was observed in samples
$Na_{0.1}TaS_2$ and $Na_{0.05}TaS_2$. However, in some samples with lower
$T_c$, the CDW appears again at about 65 K. Comparison between the anisotropic
resistivity indicates that the anisotropy becomes smaller in samples with more
$Na$ intercalation (albeit a weak semiconducting behavior along c-axis) and
thus higher $T_c$. It is thus concluded that there is a competition between the
superconductivity and the CDW. With the increase of sodium content, the rise of
$T_c$ in $Na_xTaS_2$ is caused mainly by the suppression to the CDW in
$2H-TaS_2$, and the conventional rigid band model for layered dichalcogenide
may be inadequate to explain the changes induced by the slight intercalation of
sodium in $2H-TaS_2$.


Fully Point-wise Convolutional Neural Network for Modeling Statistical
  Regularities in Natural Images

  Modeling statistical regularity plays an essential role in ill-posed image
processing problems. Recently, deep learning based methods have been presented
to implicitly learn statistical representation of pixel distributions in
natural images and leverage it as a constraint to facilitate subsequent tasks,
such as color constancy and image dehazing. However, the existing CNN
architecture is prone to variability and diversity of pixel intensity within
and between local regions, which may result in inaccurate statistical
representation. To address this problem, this paper presents a novel fully
point-wise CNN architecture for modeling statistical regularities in natural
images. Specifically, we propose to randomly shuffle the pixels in the origin
images and leverage the shuffled image as input to make CNN more concerned with
the statistical properties. Moreover, since the pixels in the shuffled image
are independent identically distributed, we can replace all the large
convolution kernels in CNN with point-wise ($1*1$) convolution kernels while
maintaining the representation ability. Experimental results on two
applications: color constancy and image dehazing, demonstrate the superiority
of our proposed network over the existing architectures, i.e., using
1/10$\sim$1/100 network parameters and computational cost while achieving
comparable performance.


Synergy and competition between superconductivity and antiferromagnetism
  in FeSe under pressure

  Temperature dependence of resistivity under high pressures with magnetic
fields parallel and perpendicular to the FeSe planes are measured in FeSe
single crystals. It is found that the structural transition (nematic)
temperature is suppressed by pressure and ends at around $P$ = 1.18 GPa. Below
around 0.85 GPa, the superconducting transition shows a narrow width with no
indication of antiferromagnetic order. While above this pressure, the
superconducting transition temperature drops slightly forming a small dome of
superconducting region with the maximum $T_c$ at around 0.825 GPa. Furthermore,
just above this pressure, the superconducting transition exhibits an unusual
large transition width which reaches about 6-8 K. This wide transition width is
an intrinsic feature and does not change with magnetic field. In the high
pressure region above 1.18 GPa, just accompanying the onset of superconducting
transition, an upturn of resistivity immediately occurs, which is attributed to
the formation of an antiferromagnetic order. This closely attached behavior of
superconductivity and antiferromagnetic order indicates that these two orders
have a synergy feature. Near the critical pressure 0.825 GPa and below, our
data illustrate that an antiferromagnetic order emerges when superconductivity
is suppressed. From the weak influence of magnetic field to the
antiferromagnetic order, we conclude that it exists already below the small
superconducting dome in the low pressure region. This shows a competing feature
between superconductivity and antiferromagnetic order. Our results show duality
features, namely synergy and competition between superconductivity and
antiferromagnetic order under pressure in FeSe.


Network Morphism

  We present in this paper a systematic study on how to morph a well-trained
neural network to a new one so that its network function can be completely
preserved. We define this as \emph{network morphism} in this research. After
morphing a parent network, the child network is expected to inherit the
knowledge from its parent network and also has the potential to continue
growing into a more powerful one with much shortened training time. The first
requirement for this network morphism is its ability to handle diverse morphing
types of networks, including changes of depth, width, kernel size, and even
subnet. To meet this requirement, we first introduce the network morphism
equations, and then develop novel morphing algorithms for all these morphing
types for both classic and convolutional neural networks. The second
requirement for this network morphism is its ability to deal with non-linearity
in a network. We propose a family of parametric-activation functions to
facilitate the morphing of any continuous non-linear activation neurons.
Experimental results on benchmark datasets and typical neural networks
demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed network morphism scheme.


Deeply Coupled Auto-encoder Networks for Cross-view Classification

  The comparison of heterogeneous samples extensively exists in many
applications, especially in the task of image classification. In this paper, we
propose a simple but effective coupled neural network, called Deeply Coupled
Autoencoder Networks (DCAN), which seeks to build two deep neural networks,
coupled with each other in every corresponding layers. In DCAN, each deep
structure is developed via stacking multiple discriminative coupled
auto-encoders, a denoising auto-encoder trained with maximum margin criterion
consisting of intra-class compactness and inter-class penalty. This single
layer component makes our model simultaneously preserve the local consistency
and enhance its discriminative capability. With increasing number of layers,
the coupled networks can gradually narrow the gap between the two views.
Extensive experiments on cross-view image classification tasks demonstrate the
superiority of our method over state-of-the-art methods.


Search for Small Trans-Neptunian Objects by the TAOS Project

  The Taiwan-America Occultation Survey (TAOS) aims to determine the number of
small icy bodies in the outer reach of the Solar System by means of stellar
occultation. An array of 4 robotic small (D=0.5 m), wide-field (f/1.9)
telescopes have been installed at Lulin Observatory in Taiwan to simultaneously
monitor some thousand of stars for such rare occultation events. Because a
typical occultation event by a TNO a few km across will last for only a
fraction of a second, fast photometry is necessary. A special CCD readout
scheme has been devised to allow for stellar photometry taken a few times per
second. Effective analysis pipelines have been developed to process stellar
light curves and to correlate any possible flux changes among all telescopes. A
few billion photometric measurements have been collected since the routine
survey began in early 2005. Our preliminary result of a very low detection rate
suggests a deficit of small TNOs down to a few km size, consistent with the
extrapolation of some recent studies of larger (30--100 km) TNOs.


Structures of Rotating Traditional Neutron Stars and Hyperon Stars in
  the Relativistic $σ-ω$ Model

  The influence of the rotation on the total masses and radii of the neutron
stars are calculated by the Hartle's slow rotation formalism, while the
equation of state is considered in a relativistic $\sigma-\omega$ model.
Comparing with the observation, the calculating result shows that the double
neutron star binaries are more like hyperon stars and the neutron stars of
X-ray binaries are more like traditional neutron stars. As the changes of the
mass and radius to a real neutron star caused by the rotation are very small
comparing with the total mass and radius, one can see that Hartle's approximate
method is rational to deal with the rotating neutron stars. If three property
values: mass, radius and period are observed to the same neutron star, then the
EOS of this neutron star could be decided entirely.


Vacuum Energy Density and Cosmological Constant in dS Brane World

  We discuss the vacuum energy density and the cosmological constant of dS$_5$
brane world with a dilaton field. It is shown that a stable AdS$_4$ brane can
be constructed and gravity localization can be realized. An explicit relation
between the dS bulk cosmological constant and the brane cosmological constant
is obtained. The discrete mass spectrum of the massive scalar field in the
AdS$_4$ brane is used to acquire the relationship between the brane
cosmological constant and the vacuum energy density. The vacuum energy density
in the brane gotten by this method is in agreement with astronomical
observations.


Imprints of Nuclear Symmetry Energy on Properties of Neutron Stars

  Significant progress has been made in recent years in constraining the
density dependence of nuclear symmetry energy using terrestrial nuclear
laboratory data. Around and below the nuclear matter saturation density, the
experimental constraints start to merge in a relatively narrow region. At
supra-saturation densities, there are, however, still large uncertainties.
After summarizing the latest experimental constraints on the density dependence
of nuclear symmetry energy, we highlight a few recent studies examining
imprints of nuclear symmetry energy on the binding energy, energy release
during hadron-quark phase transitions as well as the $w$-mode frequency and
damping time of gravitational wave emission of neutron stars.


Revealing the dual nature of magnetism in iron pnictides and iron
  chalcogenides using x-ray emission spectroscopy

  We report Fe K beta x-ray emission spectroscopy study of local magnetic
moments in various iron based superconductors in their paramagnetic phases.
Local magnetic moments are found in all samples studied: PrFeAsO,
Ba(Fe,Co)2As2, LiFeAs, Fe1+x(Te,Se), and A2Fe4Se5 (A=K, Rb, and Cs). The moment
size varies significantly across different families. Specifically, all iron
pnictides samples have local moments of about 1 $\mu_B$/Fe, while FeTe and
K2Fe4Se5 families have much larger local moments of ~2$\mu_B$/Fe,
~3.3$\mu_B$/Fe, respectively. In addition, we find that neither carrier doping
nor temperature change affects the local moment size.


The Test of LLRF control system on superconducting cavity

  The first generation Low-Level radio frequency(LLRF) control system
independently developed by IMPCAS, the operating frequency is 162.5MHz for
China ADS, which consists of superconducting cavity amplitude stability
control, phase stability control and the cavity resonance frequency control.
The LLRF control system is based on four samples IQ quadrature demodulation
technique consisting an all-digital closed-loop feedback control. This paper
completed the first generation of ADS LLRF control system in the
low-temperature superconducting cavities LLRF stability and performance online
tests. Through testing, to verify the performance of LLRF control system, to
analysis on emerging issues, and in accordance with the experimental data, to
summarize LLRF control system performance to accumulate experience for the
future control of superconducting cavities.


Storytelling of Photo Stream with Bidirectional Multi-thread Recurrent
  Neural Network

  Visual storytelling aims to generate human-level narrative language (i.e., a
natural paragraph with multiple sentences) from a photo streams. A typical
photo story consists of a global timeline with multi-thread local storylines,
where each storyline occurs in one different scene. Such complex structure
leads to large content gaps at scene transitions between consecutive photos.
Most existing image/video captioning methods can only achieve limited
performance, because the units in traditional recurrent neural networks (RNN)
tend to "forget" the previous state when the visual sequence is inconsistent.
In this paper, we propose a novel visual storytelling approach with
Bidirectional Multi-thread Recurrent Neural Network (BMRNN). First, based on
the mined local storylines, a skip gated recurrent unit (sGRU) with delay
control is proposed to maintain longer range visual information. Second, by
using sGRU as basic units, the BMRNN is trained to align the local storylines
into the global sequential timeline. Third, a new training scheme with a
storyline-constrained objective function is proposed by jointly considering
both global and local matches. Experiments on three standard storytelling
datasets show that the BMRNN model outperforms the state-of-the-art methods.


Controllably releasing long-lived quantum memory for photonic
  polarization qubit into multiple separate photonic channels

  We report an experiment in which long-lived quantum memories for photonic
polarization qubits (PPQs) are controllably released into any one of multiple
separate channels. The PPQs are implemented with an arbitrarily-polarized
coherent signal light pulses at the single-photon level and are stored in cold
atoms by means of electromagnetic-induced-transparency scheme. Reading laser
pulses propagating along the direction at a small angle relative to quantum
axis are applied to release the stored PPQs into an output channel. By changing
the propagating directions of the read laser beam, we controllably release the
retrieved PPQs into 7 different photonic output channels, respectively. At one
of the output channels, the measured maximum quantum-process fidelity for the
PPQs is 94.2% at storage time of t= 0.85ms. At storage time of 6 ms, the
quantum-process fidelity is still beyond 78%, the threshold for the violation
of the Bell inequality. The demonstrated controllable release of the stored
PPQs may extend the capabilities of the quantum information storage technique.


Attribute-Based Multi-Dimensional Scalable Access Control For Social
  Media Sharing

  Media sharing is an extremely popular paradigm of social interaction in
online social networks (OSNs) nowadays. The scalable media access control is
essential to perform information sharing among users with various access
privileges. In this paper, we present a multi-dimensional scalable media access
control (MD-SMAC) system based on the proposed scalable ciphertext policy
attribute-based encryption (SCP-ABE) algorithm. In the proposed MD-SMAC system,
fine-grained access control can be performed on the media contents encoded in a
multi-dimensional scalable manner based on data consumers' diverse attributes.
Through security analysis, we show that the proposed MC-SMAC system is able to
resist collusion attacks. Additionally, we conduct experiments to evaluate the
efficiency performance of the proposed system, especially on mobile devices.


Service Provisioning and Profit Maximization in Network-assisted
  Adaptive HTTP Streaming

  Adaptive HTTP streaming with centralized consideration of multiple streams
has gained increasing interest. It poses a special challenge that the interests
of both content provider and network operator need to be deliberately balanced.
More importantly, the adaptation strategy is required to be flexible enough to
be ported to various systems that work under different network environments,
QoE levels, and economic objectives. To address these challenges, we propose a
Markov Decision Process (MDP) based network-assisted adaptation framework,
wherein cost of buffering, significant playback variation, bandwidth management
and income of playback are jointly investigated. We then demonstrate its
promising service provisioning and maximal profit for a mobile network in which
fair or differentiated service is required.


Distortion Bounds for Transmitting Correlated Sources with Common Part
  over MAC

  This paper investigates the joint source-channel coding problem of sending
two correlated memoryless sources with common part over a memoryless multiple
access channel (MAC). An inner bound and two outer bounds on the achievable
distortion region are derived. In particular, they respectively recover the
existing bounds for several special cases, such as communication without common
part, lossless communication, and noiseless communication. When specialized to
quadratic Gaussian communication case, transmitting Gaussian sources with
Gaussian common part over Gaussian MAC, the inner bound and outer bound are
used to generate two new bounds. Numerical result shows that common part
improves the distortion of such distributed source-channel coding problem.


Generalized Common Informations: Measuring Commonness by the Conditional
  Maximal Correlation

  In literature, different common informations were defined by G\'acs and
K\"orner, by Wyner, and by Kumar, Li, and Gamal, respectively. In this paper,
we define two generalized versions of common informations, named approximate
and exact information-correlation functions, by exploiting the conditional
maximal correlation as a commonness or privacy measure. These two generalized
common informations encompass the notions of G\'acs-K\"orner's, Wyner's, and
Kumar-Li-Gamal's common informations as special cases. Furthermore, to give
operational characterizations of these two generalized common informations, we
also study the problems of private sources synthesis and common information
extraction, and show that the information-correlation functions are equal to
the minimum rates of commonness needed to ensure that some conditional maximal
correlation constraints are satisfied for the centralized setting versions of
these problems. As a byproduct, the conditional maximal correlation has been
studied as well.


Modularized Morphing of Neural Networks

  In this work we study the problem of network morphism, an effective learning
scheme to morph a well-trained neural network to a new one with the network
function completely preserved. Different from existing work where basic
morphing types on the layer level were addressed, we target at the central
problem of network morphism at a higher level, i.e., how a convolutional layer
can be morphed into an arbitrary module of a neural network. To simplify the
representation of a network, we abstract a module as a graph with blobs as
vertices and convolutional layers as edges, based on which the morphing process
is able to be formulated as a graph transformation problem. Two atomic morphing
operations are introduced to compose the graphs, based on which modules are
classified into two families, i.e., simple morphable modules and complex
modules. We present practical morphing solutions for both of these two
families, and prove that any reasonable module can be morphed from a single
convolutional layer. Extensive experiments have been conducted based on the
state-of-the-art ResNet on benchmark datasets, and the effectiveness of the
proposed solution has been verified.


Optimized spin-injection efficiency and spin MOSFET operation based on
  low-barrier ferromagnet/insulator/n-Si tunnel contact

  We theoretically investigate the spin injection in different FM/I/n-Si tunnel
contacts by using the lattice NEGF method. We find that the tunnel contacts
with low barrier materials such as TiO$_2$ and Ta$_{2}$O$_{5}$, have much lower
resistances than the conventional barrier materials, resulting in a wider and
attainable optimum parameters window for improving the spin injection
efficiency and MR ratio of a vertical spin MOSFET. Additionally, we find the
spin asymmetry coefficient of TiO$_2$ tunnel contact has a negative value,
while that of Ta$_{2}$O$_{5}$ contact can be tuned between positive and
negative values, by changing the parameters.


Photoinduced Domain Pattern Transformation in Ferroelectric/Dielectric
  Superlattices

  The nanodomain pattern in ferroelectric/dielectric superlattices transforms
to a uniform polarization state under above-bandgap optical excitation. X-ray
scattering reveals a disappearance of domain diffuse scattering and an
expansion of the lattice. The reappearance of the domain pattern occurs over a
period of seconds at room temperature, suggesting a transformation mechanism in
which charge carriers in long-lived trap states screen the depolarization
field. A Landau-Ginzburg-Devonshire model predicts changes in lattice parameter
and a critical carrier concentration for the transformation.


Interface induced high temperature superconductivity in single unit-cell
  FeSe films on SrTiO3

  Searching for superconducting materials with high transition temperature (TC)
is one of the most exciting and challenging fields in physics and materials
science. Although superconductivity has been discovered for more than 100
years, the copper oxides are so far the only materials with TC above 77 K, the
liquid nitrogen boiling point. Here we report an interface engineering method
for dramatically raising the TC of superconducting films. We find that one
unit-cell (UC) thick films of FeSe grown on SrTiO3 (STO) substrates by
molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) show signatures of superconducting transition
above 50 K by transport measurement. A superconducting gap as large as 20 meV
of the 1 UC films observed by scanning tunneling microcopy (STM) suggests that
the superconductivity could occur above 77 K. The occurrence of
superconductivity is further supported by the presence of superconducting
vortices under magnetic field. Our work not only demonstrates a powerful way
for finding new superconductors and for raising TC, but also provides a
well-defined platform for systematic study of the mechanism of unconventional
superconductivity by using different superconducting materials and substrates.


Tensor product representation of topological ordered phase: necessary
  symmetry conditions

  The tensor product representation of quantum states leads to a promising
variational approach to study quantum phase and quantum phase transitions,
especially topological ordered phases which are impossible to handle with
conventional methods due to their long range entanglement. However, an
important issue arises when we use tensor product states (TPS) as variational
states to find the ground state of a Hamiltonian: can arbitrary variations in
the tensors that represent ground state of a Hamiltonian be induced by local
perturbations to the Hamiltonian? Starting from a tensor product state which is
the exact ground state of a Hamiltonian with $\mathbb{Z}_2$ topological order,
we show that, surprisingly, not all variations of the tensors correspond to the
variation of the ground state caused by local perturbations of the Hamiltonian.
Even in the absence of any symmetry requirement of the perturbed Hamiltonian,
one necessary condition for the variations of the tensors to be physical is
that they respect certain $\mathbb{Z}_2$ symmetry. We support this claim by
calculating explicitly the change in topological entanglement entropy with
different variations in the tensors. This finding will provide important
guidance to numerical variational study of topological phase and phase
transitions. It is also a crucial step in using TPS to study universal
properties of a quantum phase and its topological order.


$T$-odd quark pair production and decay at $γγ$ collider in
  the littlest Higgs model with $T$ parity in next-to-leading order QCD

  We calculate the complete next-to-leading order (NLO) QCD corrections to the
$T$-odd mirror quark pair ($q_-\bar q_-=u_-\bar u_-$, $c_-\bar c_-$, $d_-\bar
d_-$, $s_-\bar s_-$) production in the littlest Higgs model with $T$-parity
(LHT) at a high energy $\gamma \gamma$ collider. We present the dependence of
the leading order (LO) and NLO QCD corrected cross sections on the colliding
energy $\sqrt{s}$. Our calculation includes the subsequent full weak decays of
the final $T$-odd mirror quarks by adopting the narrow width approximation and
the exclusive 2-jet event selection criterion. We provide the LO and QCD NLO
kinematic distributions of final particles. We find that the NLO QCD correction
is phase space dependent and modifies the LO cross section evidently. The
$K$-factor increases noticeably when $\sqrt{s}$ approaches the threshold of the
on-shell $q_-$-pair production. We conclude that it is possible to separate the
signature of the $T$-odd quark pair production from possible Standard Model
background by taking proper kinematic cut.


Band dependent inter-layer $f$-electron hybridization in CeRhIn$_5$

  A key issue in heavy fermion research is how subtle changes in the
hybridization between the 4$f$ (5$f$) and conduction electrons can result in
fundamentally different ground states. CeRhIn$_5$ stands out as a particularly
notable example: replacing Rh by either Co or Ir, located above or below Rh in
the periodic table, antiferromagnetism gives way to superconductivity. In this
photoemission study of CeRhIn$_5$, we demonstrate that the use of resonant
ARPES with polarized light allows to extract detailed information on the 4$f$
crystal field states and details on the 4$f$ and conduction electron
hybridization which together determine the ground state. We directly observe
weakly dispersive Kondo resonances of $f$-electrons and identify two of the
three Ce $4f_{5/2}^{1}$ crystal-electric-field levels and band-dependent
hybridization, which signals that the hybridization occurs primarily between
the Ce $4f$ states in the CeIn$_3$ layer and two more three-dimensional bands
composed of the Rh $4d$ and In $5p$ orbitals in the RhIn$_2$ layer. Our results
allow to connect the properties observed at elevated temperatures with the
unusual low-temperature properties of this enigmatic heavy fermion compound.


Mesoscopic structural phase progression in photo-excited VO2 revealed by
  time-resolved x-ray diffraction microscopy

  Dynamical phase separation during a solid-solid phase transition poses a
challenge for understanding the fundamental processes in correlated materials.
Critical information underlying a phase transition, such as localized phase
competition, is difficult to reveal by measurements that are spatially averaged
over many phase separated regions. The ability to simultaneously track the
spatial and temporal evolution of such systems is essential to understanding
mesoscopic processes during a phase transition. Using state-of-the-art
time-resolved hard x-ray diffraction microscopy, we directly visualize the
structural phase progression in a VO2 film upon photoexcitation. Following a
homogenous in-plane optical excitation, the phase transformation is initiated
at discrete sites and completed by the growth of one lattice structure into the
other, instead of a simultaneous isotropic lattice symmetry change. The
time-dependent x-ray diffraction spatial maps show that the in-plane phase
progression in laser-superheated VO2 is via a displacive lattice transformation
as a result of relaxation from an excited monoclinic phase into a rutile phase.
The speed of the phase front progression is quantitatively measured, and is
faster than the process driven by in-plane thermal diffusion but slower than
the sound speed in VO2. The direct visualization of localized structural
changes in the time domain opens a new avenue to study mesoscopic processes in
driven systems.


Picosecond electric-field-induced threshold switching in phase-change
  materials

  Many chalcogenide glasses undergo a breakdown in electronic resistance above
a critical field strength. Known as threshold switching, this mechanism enables
field-induced crystallization in emerging phase-change memory. Purely
electronic as well as crystal nucleation assisted models have been employed to
explain the electronic breakdown. Here, picosecond electric pulses are used to
excite amorphous Ag$_4$In$_3$Sb$_{67}$Te$_{26}$. Field-dependent reversible
changes in conductivity and pulse-driven crystallization are observed. The
present results show that threshold switching can take place within the
electric pulse on sub-picosecond time-scales - faster than crystals can
nucleate. This supports purely electronic models of threshold switching and
reveals potential applications as an ultrafast electronic switch.


Ultrafast terahertz-field-driven ionic response in ferroelectric
  BaTiO$_3$

  The dynamical processes associated with electric field manipulation of the
polarization in a ferroelectric remain largely unknown but fundamentally
determine the speed and functionality of ferroelectric materials and devices.
Here we apply sub-picosecond duration, single-cycle terahertz pulses as an
ultrafast electric field bias to prototypical BaTiO$_3$ ferroelectric thin
films with the atomic-scale response probed by femtosecond x-ray scattering
techniques. We show that electric fields applied perpendicular to the
ferroelectric polarization drive large amplitude displacements of the titanium
atoms along the ferroelectric polarization axis, comparable to that of the
built-in displacements associated with the intrinsic polarization and
incoherent across unit cells. This effect is associated with a dynamic rotation
of the ferroelectric polarization switching on and then off on picosecond
timescales. These transient polarization modulations are followed by long-lived
vibrational heating effects driven by resonant excitation of the ferroelectric
soft mode, as reflected in changes in the c-axis tetragonality. The ultrafast
structural characterization described here enables direct comparison with
first-principles-based molecular dynamics simulations, with good agreement
obtained.


Coexistence of Two Sharp-Mode Couplings and Their Unusual Momentum
  Dependence in the Superconducting State of Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+d Superconductor
  Revealed by Laser-Based Angle-Resolved Photoemission

  Super-high resolution laser-based angle-resolved photoemission measurements
have been carried out on Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+d (Bi2212) superconductors to
investigate momentum dependence of electron coupling with collective
excitations (modes). Two coexisting energy scales are clearly revealed over a
large momentum space for the first time in the superconducting state of an
overdoped Bi2212 superconductor. These two energy scales exhibit distinct
momentum dependence: one keeps its energy near 78 meV over a large momentum
space while the other changes its energy from $\sim$40 meV near the antinodal
region to $\sim$70 meV near the nodal region. These observations provide a new
picture on momentum evolution of electron-boson coupling in Bi2212 that
electrons are coupled with two sharp modes simultaneously over a large momentum
space in the superconducting states. Their unusual momentum dependence poses a
challenge to our current understanding of electron-mode-coupling and its role
for high temperature superconductivity in cuprate superconductors.


Prime Focus Instrument of Prime Focus Spectrograph for Subaru Telescope

  The Prime Focus Spectrograph (PFS) is a new optical/near-infrared multi-fiber
spectrograph design for the prime focus of the 8.2m Subaru telescope. PFS will
cover 1.3 degree diameter field with 2394 fibers to complement the imaging
capability of Hyper SuprimeCam (HSC). The prime focus unit of PFS called Prime
Focus Instrument (PFI) provides the interface with the top structure of Subaru
telescope and also accommodates the optical bench in which Cobra fiber
positioners are located. In addition, the acquisition and guiding (A&G)
cameras, the optical fiber positioner system, the cable wrapper, the fiducial
fibers, illuminator, and viewer, the field element, and the telemetry system
are located inside the PFI. The mechanical structure of the PFI was designed
with special care such that its deflections sufficiently match those of the HSC
Wide Field Corrector (WFC) so the fibers will stay on targets over the course
of the observations within the required accuracy.


Breaking the EOS-Gravity Degeneracy with Masses and Pulsating
  Frequencies of Neutron Stars

  A thorough understanding of many astrophysical phenomena associated with
compact objects requires reliable knowledge about both the equation of state
(EOS)of super-dense nuclear matter and the theory of strong-field gravity
simultaneously because of the EOS-gravity degeneracy. Currently, variations of
the neutron star (NS) mass-radius correlation from using alternative gravity
theories are much larger than those from changing the NS matter EOS within
known constraints. At least two independent observables are required to break
the EOS-gravity degeneracy. Using model EOSs for hybrid stars and a Yukawa-type
non-Newtonian gravity, we investigate both the mass-radius correlation and
pulsating frequencies of NSs. While the maximum mass of NSs increases, the
frequencies of the $f$, $p_1$, $p_2$, and $w_I$ pulsating modes are found to
decrease with the increasing strength of the Yukawa-type non-Newtonian gravity,
providing a useful reference for future determination simultaneously of both
the strong-field gravity and the supranuclear EOS by combining data of x-ray
and gravitational wave emissions of neutron stars.


Ultrafast THz Field Control of Electronic and Structural Interactions in
  Vanadium Dioxide

  Vanadium dioxide, an archetypal correlated-electron material, undergoes an
insulator-metal transition near room temperature that exhibits
electron-correlation-driven and structurally-driven physics. Using ultrafast
optical spectroscopy and x-ray scattering we show that these processes can be
disentangled in the time domain. Specifically, following intense sub-picosecond
electric-field excitation, a partial collapse of the insulating gap occurs
within the first ps. Subsequently, this electronic reconfiguration initiates a
change in lattice symmetry taking place on a slower timescale. We identify the
kinetic energy increase of electrons tunneling in the strong electric field as
the driving force, illustrating a novel method to control electronic
interactions in correlated materials on an ultrafast timescale.


Computationally Recoverable Camouflage: A Universal Model for
  Privacy-Aware Location-Based Services

  With the prevalence of location-based services (LBSs) supported by advanced
positioning technology, there is a dramatic increase in the transmission of
high-precision personal geographical data. Malicious use of these sensitive
data will threaten the privacy of LBS users. Although privacy research in LBSs
has received wide attention, related works are mostly focused on some specific
applications. Due to high diversity of LBSs, it is critical to build a
universal model that is able to handle privacy protection for broader range of
applications. In this paper, we propose a Computationally Recoverable
Camouflage (CRC) model, where LBS users can preserve privacy by reporting
camouflaged location information and are able to flexibly leverage between the
service quality and the achieved privacy in different applications by adjusting
the precision of the camouflage information. In particular, we propose a novel
camouflage algorithm with formal privacy guarantee that considers both location
context and social context, enabling LBS users to scalably expose camouflage
information in terms of two dimensions. Furthermore, we apply the Scalable
Ciphertext Policy Attribute-Based Encryption (SCP-ABE) algorithm to enforce
fine-grained access control on the two-dimensional-scalable camouflage
information. Through successful implementations on Android devices, we have
demonstrated the computational efficiency of the proposed CRC model.


A-Lamp: Adaptive Layout-Aware Multi-Patch Deep Convolutional Neural
  Network for Photo Aesthetic Assessment

  Deep convolutional neural networks (CNN) have recently been shown to generate
promising results for aesthetics assessment. However, the performance of these
deep CNN methods is often compromised by the constraint that the neural network
only takes the fixed-size input. To accommodate this requirement, input images
need to be transformed via cropping, warping, or padding, which often alter
image composition, reduce image resolution, or cause image distortion. Thus the
aesthetics of the original images is impaired because of potential loss of fine
grained details and holistic image layout. However, such fine grained details
and holistic image layout is critical for evaluating an image's aesthetics. In
this paper, we present an Adaptive Layout-Aware Multi-Patch Convolutional
Neural Network (A-Lamp CNN) architecture for photo aesthetic assessment. This
novel scheme is able to accept arbitrary sized images, and learn from both
fined grained details and holistic image layout simultaneously. To enable
training on these hybrid inputs, we extend the method by developing a dedicated
double-subnet neural network structure, i.e. a Multi-Patch subnet and a
Layout-Aware subnet. We further construct an aggregation layer to effectively
combine the hybrid features from these two subnets. Extensive experiments on
the large-scale aesthetics assessment benchmark (AVA) demonstrate significant
performance improvement over the state-of-the-art in photo aesthetic
assessment.


Load Coupling Power Optimization in Cloud Radio Access Networks

  Recently, Cloud-based Radio Access Network (C-RAN) has been proposed as a
potential solution to reduce energy cost in cellular networks. C-RAN
centralizes the baseband processing capabilities of Base Stations (BSs) in a
cloud computing platform in the form of BaseBand Unit (BBU) pool. In C-RAN,
power consumed by the traditional BS system is distributed as wireless
transmission power of the Remote Radio Heads (RRHs) and baseband processing
power of the BBU pool. Different from previous work where wireless transmission
power and baseband processing power are optimized individually and
independently, this paper focuses on joint optimization of allocation for these
two kinds of power and attempts to minimize the total power consumption subject
to Quality of Service (QoS) requirements from users in terms of data rates.
First, we exploit the load coupling model to express the coupling relations
among power, load and user data rates. Based on the load coupling mode, we
formulate the joint power optimization problem in C-RAN over both wireless
transmission power and baseband processing power. Second, we prove that
operating at full load may not be optimal in minimizing the total power
consumption in C-RAN. Finally, we propose an efficient iterative algorithm to
solve the target problem. Simulations have been performed to validate our
theoretical and algorithmic work. The results show that the proposed algorithm
outperforms existing schemes (without joint power optimization) in terms of
power consumption.


Resource Allocation in Dynamic TDD Heterogeneous Networks under Mixed
  Traffic

  Recently, Dynamic Time Division Duplex (TDD) has been proposed to handle the
asymmetry of traffic demand between DownLink (DL) and UpLink (UL) in
Heterogeneous Networks (HetNets). However, for mixed traffic consisting of best
effort traffic and soft Quality of Service (QoS) traffic, the resource
allocation problem has not been adequately studied in Dynamic TDD HetNets. In
this paper, we focus on such problem in a two-tier HetNet with co-channel
deployment of one Macro cell Base Station (MBS) and multiple Small cell Base
Stations (SBSs) in hotspots. Different from existing work, we introduce low
power almost blank subframes to alleviate MBS-to-SBS interference which is
inherent in TDD operation. To tackle the resource allocation problem, we
propose a two-step strategy. First, from the view point of base stations, we
propose a transmission protocol and perform time resource allocation by
formulating and solving a network capacity maximization problem under DL/UL
traffic demands. Second, from the view point of User Equipments (UEs), we
formulate their resource allocation as a Network Utility Maximization (NUM)
problem. An efficient iterative algorithm is proposed to solve the NUM problem.
Simulations show the advantage of the proposed algorithm in terms of network
throughput and UE QoS satisfaction level.


Collective Transport of Lennard-Jones Particles through One-Dimensional
  Periodic Potentials

  Transport surrounding is full of all kinds of fields, like particle
potential, external potential. Under these conditions, how elements work and
how position and momentum redistribute in the diffusion? For enriching the Fick
law in ordinary, nonequilibrium statistics physics need to be used to
disintegrate the complex process. This study attempts to discuss the particle
transport in the one-dimensional channel under external potential fields. Two
type of potentials, potential well and barrier do not change the potential in
total, are built during the diffusion process. There are quite distinct
phenomena because of different one-dimensional periodic potentials. We
meticulously explore reasons about why external potential field impacts
transport by the subsection and statistics method. Besides, one of the
evidences of Maxwell velocity distribution is confirmed in assumption of local
equilibrium. In addition, we have also investigated the influence of
temperature and concentration to the collective diffusion coefficient, by a
variety of external force, attaching thermodynamics analyze to these opposite
phenomena. So simply is this model that the most valuable point may be an idea,
which relating flux to sectional statistics of position and momentum could be
referenced in similar transport problems.


Relativistic corrections to exclusive $χ_{cJ} + γ$ production
  from $e^+ e^-$ annihilation

  We calculate in the non-relativistic QCD (NRQCD) factorization framework all
leading relativistic corrections to the exclusive production of
$\chi_{cJ}+\gamma$ in $e^+ e^-$ annihilation. In particular, we compute for the
first time contributions induced by octet operators with a chromoelectric
field. The matching coefficients multiplying production long distance matrix
elements (LDMEs) are determined through perturbative matching between QCD and
NRQCD at the amplitude level. Technical challenges encountered in the
non-relativistic expansion of the QCD amplitudes are discussed in detail. The
main source of uncertainty comes from the not so well known LDMEs. Accounting
for it, we provide the following estimates for the production cross sections at
$\sqrt{s} = 10.6\textrm{ GeV}$: $\sigma (e^+ e^- \to \chi_{ c0} + \gamma) =
(1.3 \pm 0.4) \textrm{ fb}$, $\sigma (e^+ e^- \to \chi_{ c1} + \gamma) = (15.4
\pm 6.7) \textrm{ fb}$, and $\sigma (e^+ e^- \to \chi_{ c2} + \gamma) = (4.7
\pm 2.6) \textrm{ fb}$.


