The effect of wording on message propagation: Topic- and
  author-controlled natural experiments on Twitter

  Consider a person trying to spread an important message on a social network.
He/she can spend hours trying to craft the message. Does it actually matter?
While there has been extensive prior work looking into predicting popularity of
social-media content, the effect of wording per se has rarely been studied
since it is often confounded with the popularity of the author and the topic.
To control for these confounding factors, we take advantage of the surprising
fact that there are many pairs of tweets containing the same url and written by
the same user but employing different wording. Given such pairs, we ask: which
version attracts more retweets? This turns out to be a more difficult task than
predicting popular topics. Still, humans can answer this question better than
chance (but far from perfectly), and the computational methods we develop can
do better than both an average human and a strong competing method trained on
non-controlled data.


A Corpus of Sentence-level Revisions in Academic Writing: A Step towards
  Understanding Statement Strength in Communication

  The strength with which a statement is made can have a significant impact on
the audience. For example, international relations can be strained by how the
media in one country describes an event in another; and papers can be rejected
because they overstate or understate their findings. It is thus important to
understand the effects of statement strength. A first step is to be able to
distinguish between strong and weak statements. However, even this problem is
understudied, partly due to a lack of data. Since strength is inherently
relative, revisions of texts that make claims are a natural source of data on
strength differences. In this paper, we introduce a corpus of sentence-level
revisions from academic writing. We also describe insights gained from our
annotation efforts for this task.


Friendships, Rivalries, and Trysts: Characterizing Relations between
  Ideas in Texts

  Understanding how ideas relate to each other is a fundamental question in
many domains, ranging from intellectual history to public communication.
Because ideas are naturally embedded in texts, we propose the first framework
to systematically characterize the relations between ideas based on their
occurrence in a corpus of documents, independent of how these ideas are
represented. Combining two statistics --- cooccurrence within documents and
prevalence correlation over time --- our approach reveals a number of different
ways in which ideas can cooperate and compete. For instance, two ideas can
closely track each other's prevalence over time, and yet rarely cooccur, almost
like a "cold war" scenario. We observe that pairwise cooccurrence and
prevalence correlation exhibit different distributions. We further demonstrate
that our approach is able to uncover intriguing relations between ideas through
in-depth case studies on news articles and research papers.


Talk it up or play it down? (Un)expected correlations between
  (de-)emphasis and recurrence of discussion points in consequential U.S.
  economic policy meetings

  In meetings where important decisions get made, what items receive more
attention may influence the outcome. We examine how different types of
rhetorical (de-)emphasis -- including hedges, superlatives, and contrastive
conjunctions -- correlate with what gets revisited later, controlling for item
frequency and speaker. Our data consists of transcripts of recurring meetings
of the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee (FOMC), where important aspects
of U.S. monetary policy are decided on. Surprisingly, we find that words
appearing in the context of hedging, which is usually considered a way to
express uncertainty, are more likely to be repeated in subsequent meetings,
while strong emphasis indicated by superlatives has a slightly negative effect
on word recurrence in subsequent meetings. We also observe interesting patterns
in how these effects vary depending on social factors such as status and gender
of the speaker. For instance, the positive effects of hedging are more
pronounced for female speakers than for male speakers.


Neural Models for Documents with Metadata

  Most real-world document collections involve various types of metadata, such
as author, source, and date, and yet the most commonly-used approaches to
modeling text corpora ignore this information. While specialized models have
been developed for particular applications, few are widely used in practice, as
customization typically requires derivation of a custom inference algorithm. In
this paper, we build on recent advances in variational inference methods and
propose a general neural framework, based on topic models, to enable flexible
incorporation of metadata and allow for rapid exploration of alternative
models. Our approach achieves strong performance, with a manageable tradeoff
between perplexity, coherence, and sparsity. Finally, we demonstrate the
potential of our framework through an exploration of a corpus of articles about
US immigration.


Dynamic Entity Representations in Neural Language Models

  Understanding a long document requires tracking how entities are introduced
and evolve over time. We present a new type of language model, EntityNLM, that
can explicitly model entities, dynamically update their representations, and
contextually generate their mentions. Our model is generative and flexible; it
can model an arbitrary number of entities in context while generating each
entity mention at an arbitrary length. In addition, it can be used for several
different tasks such as language modeling, coreference resolution, and entity
prediction. Experimental results with all these tasks demonstrate that our
model consistently outperforms strong baselines and prior work.


Winning Arguments: Interaction Dynamics and Persuasion Strategies in
  Good-faith Online Discussions

  Changing someone's opinion is arguably one of the most important challenges
of social interaction. The underlying process proves difficult to study: it is
hard to know how someone's opinions are formed and whether and how someone's
views shift. Fortunately, ChangeMyView, an active community on Reddit, provides
a platform where users present their own opinions and reasoning, invite others
to contest them, and acknowledge when the ensuing discussions change their
original views. In this work, we study these interactions to understand the
mechanisms behind persuasion.
  We find that persuasive arguments are characterized by interesting patterns
of interaction dynamics, such as participant entry-order and degree of
back-and-forth exchange. Furthermore, by comparing similar counterarguments to
the same opinion, we show that language factors play an essential role. In
particular, the interplay between the language of the opinion holder and that
of the counterargument provides highly predictive cues of persuasiveness.
Finally, since even in this favorable setting people may not be persuaded, we
investigate the problem of determining whether someone's opinion is susceptible
to being changed at all. For this more difficult task, we show that stylistic
choices in how the opinion is expressed carry predictive power.


All Who Wander: On the Prevalence and Characteristics of Multi-community
  Engagement

  Although analyzing user behavior within individual communities is an active
and rich research domain, people usually interact with multiple communities
both on- and off-line. How do users act in such multi-community environments?
Although there are a host of intriguing aspects to this question, it has
received much less attention in the research community in comparison to the
intra-community case. In this paper, we examine three aspects of
multi-community engagement: the sequence of communities that users post to, the
language that users employ in those communities, and the feedback that users
receive, using longitudinal posting behavior on Reddit as our main data source,
and DBLP for auxiliary experiments. We also demonstrate the effectiveness of
features drawn from these aspects in predicting users' future level of
activity.
  One might expect that a user's trajectory mimics the "settling-down" process
in real life: an initial exploration of sub-communities before settling down
into a few niches. However, we find that the users in our data continually post
in new communities; moreover, as time goes on, they post increasingly evenly
among a more diverse set of smaller communities. Interestingly, it seems that
users that eventually leave the community are "destined" to do so from the very
beginning, in the sense of showing significantly different "wandering" patterns
very early on in their trajectories; this finding has potentially important
design implications for community maintainers. Our multi-community perspective
also allows us to investigate the "situation vs. personality" debate from
language usage across different communities.


"You are no Jack Kennedy": On Media Selection of Highlights from
  Presidential Debates

  Political speeches and debates play an important role in shaping the images
of politicians, and the public often relies on media outlets to select bits of
political communication from a large pool of utterances. It is an important
research question to understand what factors impact this selection process.
  To quantitatively explore the selection process, we build a three- decade
dataset of presidential debate transcripts and post-debate coverage. We first
examine the effect of wording and propose a binary classification framework
that controls for both the speaker and the debate situation. We find that
crowdworkers can only achieve an accuracy of 60% in this task, indicating that
media choices are not entirely obvious. Our classifiers outperform crowdworkers
on average, mainly in primary debates. We also compare important factors from
crowdworkers' free-form explanations with those from data-driven methods and
find interesting differences. Few crowdworkers mentioned that "context
matters", whereas our data show that well-quoted sentences are more distinct
from the previous utterance by the same speaker than less-quoted sentences.
Finally, we examine the aggregate effect of media preferences towards different
wordings to understand the extent of fragmentation among media outlets. By
analyzing a bipartite graph built from quoting behavior in our data, we observe
a decreasing trend in bipartisan coverage.


Tracing Community Genealogy: How New Communities Emerge from the Old

  The process by which new communities emerge is a central research issue in
the social sciences. While a growing body of research analyzes the formation of
a single community by examining social networks between individuals, we
introduce a novel community-centered perspective. We highlight the fact that
the context in which a new community emerges contains numerous existing
communities. We reveal the emerging process of communities by tracing their
early members' previous community memberships.
  Our testbed is Reddit, a website that consists of tens of thousands of
user-created communities. We analyze a dataset that spans over a decade and
includes the posting history of users on Reddit from its inception to April
2017. We first propose a computational framework for building genealogy graphs
between communities. We present the first large-scale characterization of such
genealogy graphs. Surprisingly, basic graph properties, such as the number of
parents and max parent weight, converge quickly despite the fact that the
number of communities increases rapidly over time. Furthermore, we investigate
the connection between a community's origin and its future growth. Our results
show that strong parent connections are associated with future community
growth, confirming the importance of existing community structures in which a
new community emerges. Finally, we turn to the individual level and examine the
characteristics of early members. We find that a diverse portfolio across
existing communities is the most important predictor for becoming an early
member in a new community.


User-level sentiment analysis incorporating social networks

  We show that information about social relationships can be used to improve
user-level sentiment analysis. The main motivation behind our approach is that
users that are somehow "connected" may be more likely to hold similar opinions;
therefore, relationship information can complement what we can extract about a
user's viewpoints from their utterances. Employing Twitter as a source for our
experimental data, and working within a semi-supervised framework, we propose
models that are induced either from the Twitter follower/followee network or
from the network in Twitter formed by users referring to each other using "@"
mentions. Our transductive learning results reveal that incorporating
social-network information can indeed lead to statistically significant
sentiment-classification improvements over the performance of an approach based
on Support Vector Machines having access only to textual features.


LSTMs Exploit Linguistic Attributes of Data

  While recurrent neural networks have found success in a variety of natural
language processing applications, they are general models of sequential data.
We investigate how the properties of natural language data affect an LSTM's
ability to learn a nonlinguistic task: recalling elements from its input. We
find that models trained on natural language data are able to recall tokens
from much longer sequences than models trained on non-language sequential data.
Furthermore, we show that the LSTM learns to solve the memorization task by
explicitly using a subset of its neurons to count timesteps in the input. We
hypothesize that the patterns and structure in natural language data enable
LSTMs to learn by providing approximate ways of reducing loss, but
understanding the effect of different training data on the learnability of
LSTMs remains an open question.


What Makes a Good Team? A Large-scale Study on the Effect of Team
  Composition in Honor of Kings

  Team composition is a central factor in determining the effectiveness of a
team. In this paper, we present a large-scale study on the effect of team
composition on multiple measures of team effectiveness. We use a dataset from
the largest multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) game, Honor of Kings, with
96 million matches involving 100 million players. We measure team effectiveness
based on team performance (whether a team is going to win), team tenacity
(whether a team is going to surrender), and team rapport (whether a team uses
abusive language). Our results confirm the importance of team diversity and
show that diversity has varying effects on team effectiveness: although diverse
teams perform well and show tenacity in adversity, they are more likely to
abuse when losing than less diverse teams. Our study also contributes to the
situation vs. personality debate and show that abusive players tend to choose
the leading role and players do not become more abusive when taking such roles.
We further demonstrate the predictive power of features based on team
composition in prediction experiments.


Hedge detection as a lens on framing in the GMO debates: A position
  paper

  Understanding the ways in which participants in public discussions frame
their arguments is important in understanding how public opinion is formed. In
this paper, we adopt the position that it is time for more
computationally-oriented research on problems involving framing. In the
interests of furthering that goal, we propose the following specific,
interesting and, we believe, relatively accessible question: In the controversy
regarding the use of genetically-modified organisms (GMOs) in agriculture, do
pro- and anti-GMO articles differ in whether they choose to adopt a
"scientific" tone?
  Prior work on the rhetoric and sociology of science suggests that hedging may
distinguish popular-science text from text written by professional scientists
for their colleagues. We propose a detailed approach to studying whether hedge
detection can be used to understanding scientific framing in the GMO debates,
and provide corpora to facilitate this study. Some of our preliminary analyses
suggest that hedges occur less frequently in scientific discourse than in
popular text, a finding that contradicts prior assertions in the literature. We
hope that our initial work and data will encourage others to pursue this
promising line of inquiry.


On the Interplay between Social and Topical Structure

  People's interests and people's social relationships are intuitively
connected, but understanding their interplay and whether they can help predict
each other has remained an open question. We examine the interface of two
decisive structures forming the backbone of online social media: the graph
structure of social networks - who connects with whom - and the set structure
of topical affiliations - who is interested in what. In studying this
interface, we identify key relationships whereby each of these structures can
be understood in terms of the other. The context for our analysis is Twitter, a
complex social network of both follower relationships and communication
relationships. On Twitter, "hashtags" are used to label conversation topics,
and we examine hashtag usage alongside these social structures.
  We find that the hashtags that users adopt can predict their social
relationships, and also that the social relationships between the initial
adopters of a hashtag can predict the future popularity of that hashtag. By
studying weighted social relationships, we observe that while strong
reciprocated ties are the easiest to predict from hashtag structure, they are
also much less useful than weak directed ties for predicting hashtag
popularity. Importantly, we show that computationally simple structural
determinants can provide remarkable performance in both tasks. While our
analyses focus on Twitter, we view our findings as broadly applicable to
topical affiliations and social relationships in a host of diverse contexts,
including the movies people watch, the brands people like, or the locations
people frequent.


Science, AskScience, and BadScience: On the Coexistence of Highly
  Related Communities

  When large social-media platforms allow users to easily form and
self-organize into interest groups, highly related communities can arise. For
example, the Reddit site hosts not just a group called food, but also
HealthyFood, foodhacks, foodporn, and cooking, among others. Are these highly
related communities created for similar classes of reasons (e.g., to focus on a
subtopic, to create a place for allegedly more "high-minded" discourse, etc.)?
How do users allocate attention between such close alternatives when they are
available or emerge over time? Are there different types of relations between
close alternatives such as sharing many users vs. a new community drawing away
members of an older one vs. a splinter group failing to cohere into a viable
separate community? We investigate the interactions between highly related
communities using data from reddit.com consisting of 975M posts and comments
spanning an 8-year period. We identify a set of typical affixes that users
adopt to create highly related communities and build a taxonomy of affixes. One
interesting finding regarding users' behavior is: after a newer community is
created, for several types of highly-related community pairs, users that engage
in a newer community tend to be more active in their original community than
users that do not explore, even when controlling for previous level of
engagement.


Urban Dreams of Migrants: A Case Study of Migrant Integration in
  Shanghai

  Unprecedented human mobility has driven the rapid urbanization around the
world. In China, the fraction of population dwelling in cities increased from
17.9% to 52.6% between 1978 and 2012. Such large-scale migration poses
challenges for policymakers and important questions for researchers. To
investigate the process of migrant integration, we employ a one-month complete
dataset of telecommunication metadata in Shanghai with 54 million users and 698
million call logs. We find systematic differences between locals and migrants
in their mobile communication networks and geographical locations. For
instance, migrants have more diverse contacts and move around the city with a
larger radius than locals after they settle down. By distinguishing new
migrants (who recently moved to Shanghai) from settled migrants (who have been
in Shanghai for a while), we demonstrate the integration process of new
migrants in their first three weeks. Moreover, we formulate classification
problems to predict whether a person is a migrant. Our classifier is able to
achieve an F1-score of 0.82 when distinguishing settled migrants from locals,
but it remains challenging to identify new migrants because of class imbalance.
This classification setup holds promise for identifying new migrants who will
successfully integrate into locals (new migrants that misclassified as locals).


Online Red Packets: A Large-scale Empirical Study of Gift Giving on
  WeChat

  Gift giving is a ubiquitous social phenomenon, and red packets have been used
as monetary gifts in Asian countries for thousands of years. In recent years,
online red packets have become widespread in China through the WeChat platform.
Exploiting a unique dataset consisting of 61 million group red packets and
seven million users, we conduct a large-scale, data-driven study to understand
the spread of red packets and the effect of red packets on group activity. We
find that the cash flows between provinces are largely consistent with
provincial GDP rankings, e.g., red packets are sent from users in the south to
those in the north. By distinguishing spontaneous from reciprocal red packets,
we reveal the behavioral patterns in sending red packets: males, seniors, and
people with more in-group friends are more inclined to spontaneously send red
packets, while red packets from females, youths, and people with less in-group
friends are more reciprocal. Furthermore, we use propensity score matching to
study the external effects of red packets on group dynamics. We show that red
packets increase group participation and strengthen in-group relationships,
which partly explain the benefits and motivations for sending red packets.


To Stay or to Leave: Churn Prediction for Urban Migrants in the Initial
  Period

  In China, 260 million people migrate to cities to realize their urban dreams.
Despite that these migrants play an important role in the rapid urbanization
process, many of them fail to settle down and eventually leave the city. The
integration process of migrants thus raises an important issue for scholars and
policymakers.
  In this paper, we use Shanghai as an example to investigate migrants'
behavior in their first weeks and in particular, how their behavior relates to
early departure. Our dataset consists of a one-month complete dataset of 698
telecommunication logs between 54 million users, plus a novel and publicly
available housing price data for 18K real estates in Shanghai. We find that
migrants who end up leaving early tend to neither develop diverse connections
in their first weeks nor move around the city. Their active areas also have
higher housing prices than that of staying migrants. We formulate a churn
prediction problem to determine whether a migrant is going to leave based on
her behavior in the first few days. The prediction performance improves as we
include data from more days. Interestingly, when using the same features, the
classifier trained from only the first few days is already as good as the
classifier trained using full data, suggesting that the performance difference
mainly lies in the difference between features.


On Human Predictions with Explanations and Predictions of Machine
  Learning Models: A Case Study on Deception Detection

  Humans are the final decision makers in critical tasks that involve ethical
and legal concerns, ranging from recidivism prediction, to medical diagnosis,
to fighting against fake news. Although machine learning models can sometimes
achieve impressive performance in these tasks, these tasks are not amenable to
full automation. To realize the potential of machine learning for improving
human decisions, it is important to understand how assistance from machine
learning models affects human performance and human agency.
  In this paper, we use deception detection as a testbed and investigate how we
can harness explanations and predictions of machine learning models to improve
human performance while retaining human agency. We propose a spectrum between
full human agency and full automation, and develop varying levels of machine
assistance along the spectrum that gradually increase the influence of machine
predictions. We find that without showing predicted labels, explanations alone
slightly improve human performance in the end task. In comparison, human
performance is greatly improved by showing predicted labels (>20% relative
improvement) and can be further improved by explicitly suggesting strong
machine performance. Interestingly, when predicted labels are shown,
explanations of machine predictions induce a similar level of accuracy as an
explicit statement of strong machine performance. Our results demonstrate a
tradeoff between human performance and human agency and show that explanations
of machine predictions can moderate this tradeoff.


Ask Not What AI Can Do, But What AI Should Do: Towards a Framework of
  Task Delegability

  Although artificial intelligence holds promise for addressing societal
challenges, issues of exactly which tasks to automate and the extent to do so
remain understudied. We approach the problem of task delegability from a
human-centered perspective by developing a framework on human perception of
task delegation to artificial intelligence. We consider four high-level factors
that can contribute to a delegation decision: motivation, difficulty, risk, and
trust. To obtain an empirical understanding of human preferences in different
tasks, we build a dataset of 100 tasks from academic papers, popular media
portrayal of AI, and everyday life. For each task, we administer a survey to
collect judgments of each factor and ask subjects to pick the extent to which
they prefer AI involvement. We find little preference for full AI control and a
strong preference for machine-in-the-loop designs, in which humans play the
leading role. Our framework can effectively predict human preferences in
degrees of AI assistance. Among the four factors, trust is the most predictive
of human preferences of optimal human-machine delegation. This framework
represents a first step towards characterizing human preferences of automation
across tasks. We hope this work may encourage and aid in future efforts towards
understanding such individual attitudes; our goal is to inform the public and
the AI research community rather than dictating any direction in technology
development.


Are All Successful Communities Alike? Characterizing and Predicting the
  Success of Online Communities

  The proliferation of online communities has created exciting opportunities to
study the mechanisms that explain group success. While a growing body of
research investigates community success through a single measure -- typically,
the number of members -- we argue that there are multiple ways of measuring
success. Here, we present a systematic study to understand the relations
between these success definitions and test how well they can be predicted based
on community properties and behaviors from the earliest period of a community's
lifetime. We identify four success measures that are desirable for most
communities: (i) growth in the number of members; (ii) retention of members;
(iii) long term survival of the community; and (iv) volume of activities within
the community. Surprisingly, we find that our measures do not exhibit very high
correlations, suggesting that they capture different types of success.
Additionally, we find that different success measures are predicted by
different attributes of online communities, suggesting that success can be
achieved through different behaviors. Our work sheds light on the basic
understanding of what success represents in online communities and what
predicts it. Our results suggest that success is multi-faceted and cannot be
measured nor predicted by a single measurement. This insight has practical
implications for the creation of new online communities and the design of
platforms that facilitate such communities.


"This is why we play": Characterizing Online Fan Communities of the NBA
  Teams

  Professional sports constitute an important part of people's modern life.
People spend substantial amounts of time and money supporting their favorite
players and teams, and sometimes even riot after games. However, how team
performance affects fan behavior remains understudied at a large scale. As
almost every notable professional team has its own online fan community, these
communities provide great opportunities for investigating this research
question. In this work, we provide the first large-scale characterization of
online fan communities of professional sports teams.
  Since user behavior in these online fan communities is inherently connected
to game events and team performance, we construct a unique dataset that
combines 1.5M posts and 43M comments in NBA-related communities on Reddit with
statistics that document team performance in the NBA. We analyze the impact of
team performance on fan behavior both at the game level and the season level.
First, we study how team performance in a game relates to user activity during
that game. We find that surprise plays an important role: the fans of the top
teams are more active when their teams lose and so are the fans of the bottom
teams in an unexpected win. Second, we study fan behavior over consecutive
seasons and show that strong team performance is associated with fans of low
loyalty, likely due to "bandwagon fans." Fans of the bottom teams tend to
discuss their team's future such as young talents in the roster, which may help
them stay optimistic during adversity. Our results not only contribute to
understanding the interplay between online sports communities and offline
context but also provide significant insights into sports management.


