Sparse Inverse Covariance Matrix Estimation Using Quadratic
  Approximation

  The L1-regularized Gaussian maximum likelihood estimator (MLE) has been shown
to have strong statistical guarantees in recovering a sparse inverse covariance
matrix, or alternatively the underlying graph structure of a Gaussian Markov
Random Field, from very limited samples. We propose a novel algorithm for
solving the resulting optimization problem which is a regularized
log-determinant program. In contrast to recent state-of-the-art methods that
largely use first order gradient information, our algorithm is based on
Newton's method and employs a quadratic approximation, but with some
modifications that leverage the structure of the sparse Gaussian MLE problem.
We show that our method is superlinearly convergent, and present experimental
results using synthetic and real-world application data that demonstrate the
considerable improvements in performance of our method when compared to other
state-of-the-art methods.


A Divide-and-Conquer Solver for Kernel Support Vector Machines

  The kernel support vector machine (SVM) is one of the most widely used
classification methods; however, the amount of computation required becomes the
bottleneck when facing millions of samples. In this paper, we propose and
analyze a novel divide-and-conquer solver for kernel SVMs (DC-SVM). In the
division step, we partition the kernel SVM problem into smaller subproblems by
clustering the data, so that each subproblem can be solved independently and
efficiently. We show theoretically that the support vectors identified by the
subproblem solution are likely to be support vectors of the entire kernel SVM
problem, provided that the problem is partitioned appropriately by kernel
clustering. In the conquer step, the local solutions from the subproblems are
used to initialize a global coordinate descent solver, which converges quickly
as suggested by our analysis. By extending this idea, we develop a multilevel
Divide-and-Conquer SVM algorithm with adaptive clustering and early prediction
strategy, which outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of training
speed, testing accuracy, and memory usage. As an example, on the covtype
dataset with half-a-million samples, DC-SVM is 7 times faster than LIBSVM in
obtaining the exact SVM solution (to within $10^{-6}$ relative error) which
achieves 96.15% prediction accuracy. Moreover, with our proposed early
prediction strategy, DC-SVM achieves about 96% accuracy in only 12 minutes,
which is more than 100 times faster than LIBSVM.


PU Learning for Matrix Completion

  In this paper, we consider the matrix completion problem when the
observations are one-bit measurements of some underlying matrix M, and in
particular the observed samples consist only of ones and no zeros. This problem
is motivated by modern applications such as recommender systems and social
networks where only "likes" or "friendships" are observed. The problem of
learning from only positive and unlabeled examples, called PU
(positive-unlabeled) learning, has been studied in the context of binary
classification. We consider the PU matrix completion problem, where an
underlying real-valued matrix M is first quantized to generate one-bit
observations and then a subset of positive entries is revealed. Under the
assumption that M has bounded nuclear norm, we provide recovery guarantees for
two different observation models: 1) M parameterizes a distribution that
generates a binary matrix, 2) M is thresholded to obtain a binary matrix. For
the first case, we propose a "shifted matrix completion" method that recovers M
using only a subset of indices corresponding to ones, while for the second
case, we propose a "biased matrix completion" method that recovers the
(thresholded) binary matrix. Both methods yield strong error bounds --- if M is
n by n, the Frobenius error is bounded as O(1/((1-rho)n), where 1-rho denotes
the fraction of ones observed. This implies a sample complexity of O(n\log n)
ones to achieve a small error, when M is dense and n is large. We extend our
methods and guarantees to the inductive matrix completion problem, where rows
and columns of M have associated features. We provide efficient and scalable
optimization procedures for both the methods and demonstrate the effectiveness
of the proposed methods for link prediction (on real-world networks consisting
of over 2 million nodes and 90 million links) and semi-supervised clustering
tasks.


