Monte Carlo *-Minimax Search

  This paper introduces Monte Carlo *-Minimax Search (MCMS), a Monte Carlo
search algorithm for turned-based, stochastic, two-player, zero-sum games of
perfect information. The algorithm is designed for the class of of densely
stochastic games; that is, games where one would rarely expect to sample the
same successor state multiple times at any particular chance node. Our approach
combines sparse sampling techniques from MDP planning with classic pruning
techniques developed for adversarial expectimax planning. We compare and
contrast our algorithm to the traditional *-Minimax approaches, as well as MCTS
enhanced with the Double Progressive Widening, on four games: Pig, EinStein
W\"urfelt Nicht!, Can't Stop, and Ra. Our results show that MCMS can be
competitive with enhanced MCTS variants in some domains, while consistently
outperforming the equivalent classic approaches given the same amount of
thinking time.


Measuring Conflict in a Multi-Source Environment as a Normal Measure

  In a multi-source environment, each source has its own credibility. If there
is no external knowledge about credibility then we can use the information
provided by the sources to assess their credibility. In this paper, we propose
a way to measure conflict in a multi-source environment as a normal measure. We
examine our algorithm using three simulated examples of increasing conflict and
one experimental example. The results demonstrate that the proposed measure can
represent conflict in a meaningful way similar to what a human might expect and
from it we can identify conflict within our sources.


The Green Bank North Celestial Cap Pulsar Survey III: 45 New Pulsar
  Timing Solutions

  We provide timing solutions for 45 radio pulsars discovered by the Robert C.
Byrd Green Bank Telescope. These pulsars were found in the Green Bank North
Celestial Cap pulsar survey, an all-GBT-sky survey being carried out at a
frequency of 350 MHz. We include pulsar timing data from the Green Bank
Telescope and Low Frequency Array. Our sample includes five fully recycled
millisecond pulsars (MSPs, three of which are in a binary system), a new
relativistic double neutron star system, an intermediate mass binary pulsar, a
mode-changing pulsar, a 138-ms pulsar with a very low magnetic field, and
several nulling pulsars. We have measured two post-Keplerian parameters and
thus the masses of both objects in the double neutron star system. We also
report a tentative companion mass measurement via Shapiro delay in a binary
MSP. Two of the MSPs can be timed with high precision and have been included in
pulsar timing arrays being used to search for low-frequency gravitational
waves, while a third MSP is a member of the black widow class of binaries.
Proper motion is measurable in five pulsars and we provide an estimate of their
space velocity. We report on an optical counterpart to a new black widow system
and provide constraints on the optical counterparts to other binary MSPs. We
also present a preliminary analysis of nulling pulsars in our sample. These
results demonstrate the scientific return of long timing campaigns on pulsars
of all types.


