A Mixed Graphical Model for Rhythmic Parsing

  A method is presented for the rhythmic parsing problem: Given a sequence of
observed musical note onset times, we estimate the corresponding notated rhythm
and tempo process. A graphical model is developed that represents the
simultaneous evolution of tempo and rhythm and relates these hidden quantities
to observations. The rhythm variables are discrete and the tempo and
observation variables are continuous. We show how to compute the globally most
likely configuration of the tempo and rhythm variables given an observation of
note onset times. Preliminary experiments are presented on a small data set. A
generalization to arbitrary conditional Gaussian distributions is outlined.


Jean-Christophe Yoccoz and the theory of circle diffeomorphisms

  Our aim in this note is to present some of the crucial contributions of
Jean-Christophe Yoccoz to the theory of circle diffeomorphisms. We start with a
short historical account before exposing Yoccoz' work. Then we give a brief
description of the main conceptual and technical tools of the theory, with a
focus on describing Yoccoz' work and contributions.


Quantum depletion of a homogeneous Bose-Einstein condensate

  We have measured the quantum depletion of an interacting homogeneous
Bose-Einstein condensate, and confirmed the 70-year old theory of N.N.
Bogoliubov. The observed condensate depletion is reversibly tuneable by
changing the strength of the interparticle interactions. Our atomic homogeneous
condensate is produced in an optical-box trap, the interactions are tuned via a
magnetic Feshbach resonance, and the condensed fraction probed by coherent
two-photon Bragg scattering.


Tunable source of correlated atom beams

  We use a one-dimensional optical lattice to modify the dispersion relation of
atomic matter waves. Four-wave mixing in this situation produces atom pairs in
two well defined beams. We show that these beams present a narrow momentum
correlation, that their momenta are precisely tunable, and that this pair
source can be operated both in the regime of low mode occupancy and of high
mode occupancy.


An acoustic analog to the dynamical Casimir effect in a Bose-Einstein
  condensate

  We have realized an acoustic analog to the Dynamical Casimir effect. The
density of a trapped Bose-Einstein condensate is modulated by changing the trap
stiffness. We observe the creation of correlated excitations with equal and
opposite momenta, and show that for a well defined modulation frequency, the
frequency of the excitations is half that of the trap modulation frequency.


A weak lensing study of the Coma cluster

  Due to observational constraints, dark matter determinations in nearby
clusters based on weak lensing are still extremely rare, in spite of their
importance for the determination of cluster properties independent of other
methods. We present a weak lensing study of the Coma cluster (redshift 0.024)
based on deep images obtained at the CFHT. After obtaining photometric
redshifts for the galaxies in our field based on deep images in the u (1x1
deg2), and in the B, V, R and I bands (42'x52'), allowing us to eliminate
foreground galaxies, we apply weak lensing calculations on shape measurements
performed in the u image. We derive a map of the mass distribution in Coma, as
well as the radial shear profile, and the mass and concentration parameter at
various radii. We obtain M_200c = 5.1+4.3-2.1 x10^14 Msun and
c_200c=5.0+3.2-2.5, in good agreement with previous measurements. With deep
wide field images it is now possible to analyze nearby clusters with weak
lensing techniques, thus opening a broad new field of investigation.


Efficient and Cryptographically Secure Generation of Chaotic
  Pseudorandom Numbers on GPU

  In this paper we present a new pseudorandom number generator (PRNG) on
graphics processing units (GPU). This PRNG is based on the so-called chaotic
iterations. It is firstly proven to be chaotic according to the Devaney's
formulation. We thus propose an efficient implementation for GPU that
successfully passes the BigCrush tests, deemed to be the hardest battery of
tests in TestU01. Experiments show that this PRNG can generate about 20 billion
of random numbers per second on Tesla C1060 and NVidia GTX280 cards. It is then
established that, under reasonable assumptions, the proposed PRNG can be
cryptographically secure. A chaotic version of the Blum-Goldwasser asymmetric
key encryption scheme is finally proposed.


The 2nd order coherence of superradiance from a Bose--Einstein
  condensate

  We have measured the 2-particle correlation function of atoms from a
Bose--Einstein condensate participating in a superradiance process, which
directly reflects the 2nd order coherence of the emitted light. We compare this
correlation function with that of atoms undergoing stimulated emission. Whereas
the stimulated process produces correlations resembling those of a coherent
state, we find that superradiance, even in the presence of strong gain, shows a
correlation function close to that of a thermal state, just as for ordinary
spontaneous emission.


An atomic Hong-Ou-Mandel experiment

  The celebrated Hong, Ou and Mandel (HOM) effect is one of the simplest
illustrations of two-particle interference, and is unique to the quantum realm.
In the original experiment, two photons arriving simultaneously in the input
channels of a beam-splitter were observed to always emerge together in one of
the output channels. Here, we report on the realisation of a closely analogous
experiment with atoms instead of photons. This opens the prospect of testing
Bell's inequalities involving mechanical observables of massive particles, such
as momentum, using methods inspired by quantum optics, with an eye on theories
of the quantum-to-classical transition. Our work also demonstrates a new way to
produce and benchmark twin-atom pairs that may be of interest for quantum
information processing and quantum simulation.


Hard rectangles near curved hard walls: tuning the sign of the Tolman
  length

  Combining analytic calculations, computer simulations, and classical density
functional theory we determine the interfacial tension of orientable
two-dimensional hard rectangles near a curved hard wall. Both a circular cavity
holding the particles and a hard circular obstacle surrounded by particles are
considered. We focus on moderate bulk densities (corresponding to area
fractions up to 50 percent) where the bulk phase is isotropic and vary the
aspect ratio of the rectangles and the curvature of the wall. The Tolman
length, which gives the leading curvature correction of the interfacial
tension, is found to change sign at a finite density, which can be tuned via
the aspect ratio of the rectangles.


Quasiparticle energy in a strongly interacting homogeneous Bose-Einstein
  condensate

  Using two-photon Bragg spectroscopy, we study the energy of particle-like
excitations in a strongly interacting homogeneous Bose-Einstein condensate, and
observe dramatic deviations from Bogoliubov theory. In particular, at large
scattering length $a$ the shift of the excitation resonance from the
free-particle energy changes sign from positive to negative. For an excitation
with wavenumber $q$, this sign change occurs at $a \approx 4/(\pi q)$, in
agreement with the Feynman energy relation and the static structure factor
expressed in terms of the two-body contact. For $a \gtrsim 3/q$ we also see a
breakdown of this theory, and better agreement with calculations based on the
Wilson operator product expansion. Neither theory explains our observations
across all interaction regimes, inviting further theoretical efforts.


Liquid crystals of hard rectangles on flat and cylindrical manifolds

  Using the classical density functional theory of freezing and Monte Carlo
computer simulations, we explore the liquid-crystalline phase behavior of hard
rectangles on flat and cylindrical manifolds. Moreover, we study the effect of
a static external field which couples to the rectangles' orientations, aligning
them towards a preferred direction. In the flat and field-free case, the bulk
phase diagram involves stable isotropic, nematic, tetratic, and smectic phases
depending on the aspect ratio and number density of the particles. The external
field shifts the transition lines significantly and generates a binematic phase
at the expense of the tetratic phase. On a cylindrical manifold, we observe
tilted smectic-like order, as obtained by wrapping a smectic layer around a
cylinder. We find in general good agreement between our density functional
calculations and particle-resolved computer simulations and mention possible
setups to verify our predictions in experiments.


Giving Text Analytics a Boost

  The amount of textual data has reached a new scale and continues to grow at
an unprecedented rate. IBM's SystemT software is a powerful text analytics
system, which offers a query-based interface to reveal the valuable information
that lies within these mounds of data. However, traditional server
architectures are not capable of analyzing the so-called "Big Data" in an
efficient way, despite the high memory bandwidth that is available. We show
that by using a streaming hardware accelerator implemented in reconfigurable
logic, the throughput rates of the SystemT's information extraction queries can
be improved by an order of magnitude. We present how such a system can be
deployed by extending SystemT's existing compilation flow and by using a
multi-threaded communication interface that can efficiently use the bandwidth
of the accelerator.


Swept-Frequency Drumhead Mechanical Resonators

  We demonstrate a high-Q ($>5 \times 10^{6}$) swept-frequency membrane
mechanical resonator achieving octave resonance tuning via an integrated heater
and an unprecedented acceleration noise floor below 1 $\mu$g Hz$^{-1/2}$ for
frequencies above 50 kHz. This device is compatible with established batch
fabrication techniques, and its optical readout is compatible with
low-coherence light sources (e.g., a monochromatic light-emitting diode). The
device can also be mechanically stabilized (or driven) with the same light
source via bolometric optomechanics, and we demonstrate laser cooling from room
temperature to 10 K. Finally, this method of frequency tuning is well-suited to
fundamental studies of mechanical dissipation; in particular, we recover the
dissipation spectra of many modes, identifying material damping and coupling to
substrate resonances as the dominant loss mechanisms.


A full-fledged micromagnetic code in less than 70 lines of NumPy

  We present a complete micromagnetic finite-difference code in less than 70
lines of Python. The code makes largely use of the NumPy library and computes
the exchange field by finite differences and the demagnetization field with a
fast convolution algorithm. Since the magnetization in finite-difference
micromagnetics is represented by a multi-dimensional array and the NumPy
library features a rich interface for this data structure, the presented code
is a good starting point for the development of novel algorithms.


Polarization Independent Atomic Prism filter for removing Amplified
  Spontaneous Emission

  We create an optical frequency, polarization independent, narrow band-pass
filter of 1.3 GHz (3 dB bandwidth), using the steep dispersion near the
Rubidium D1 atomic transitions within a prism-shaped vapor cell. This enables
us to clean the amplified spontaneous emission from a laser by more than 3
orders of magnitude. Such a filter could find uses in fields such as quantum
information processing and Raman spectroscopy.


Residually finite-dimensional operator algebras

  We study non-selfadjoint operator algebras that can be entirely understood
via their finite-dimensional representations. In contrast with the elementary
matricial description of finite-dimensional $\mathrm{C}^*$-algebras, in the
non-selfadjoint setting we show that an additional level of flexibility must be
allowed. Motivated by this peculiarity, we consider a natural non-selfadjoint
notion of residual finite-dimensionality. We identify sufficient conditions for
the tensor algebra of a $\mathrm{C}^*$-correspondence to enjoy this property.
To clarify the connection with the usual self-adjoint notion, we investigate
the residual finite-dimensionality of the minimal and maximal
$\mathrm{C}^*$-covers associated to an operator algebra.


Mechanical tunning of adhesion through micro-patterning of elastic
  surfaces

  We present an investigation of the role of micropatterning on adhesion
properties at soft deformable polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS)/ acrylic adhesive
interfaces. Contrary to what has been observed for low aspect ratio rigid
patterns, where the adhesion enhancement was found to only result from the
increase of interfacial area due to patterning, we show that for soft elastic
arrays of cylindrical pillars, the elastic deformation of the patterns can lead
to noticeable extra adhesion increase. The effect of the geometrical
characteristics of the patterning for hexagonal arrays of PDMS micropillars on
the adhesion energy are presented. We show that varying the size of the pattern
allows one to tune the adhesion energy, and that this adhesion enhancement
saturates when the pillars become too close to each other, due a coupling of
the elastic deformation fields inside the underlying substrate. A mechanical
model has been developed and found in good quantitative agreement with
experimental data, with as unique fitting parameter the rupture criteria for
the adhesive on the top of the pillars. Such a rupture a rupture criteria can
thus be extracted from systematic experiments on controlled patterned surfaces.
This criteria remain sensitive to the chemistry of the surfaces.


NNLL resummation for stop pair-production at the LHC

  The production of supersymmetric stop-antistop pairs at the Large Hadron
Collider (LHC) is studied including corrections from soft-gluon resummation up
to next-to-next-to-leading logarithmic (NNLL) accuracy in the Mellin-space
approach. Additionally, corrections to the hard-matching coefficient at
one-loop and Coulomb contributions at two-loop order are considered. The NNLL
corrections enhance the cross section for all stop masses at centre-of-mass
energies of 8 and 13 TeV compared to the previously calculated predictions at
next-to-leading logarithmic (NLL) accuracy. Furthermore, a slight increase in
the dependence on the additional stop-mixing parameters is observed.


Steganalyzer performances in operational contexts

  Steganography and steganalysis are two important branches of the information
hiding field of research. Steganography methods consist in hiding information
in such a way that the secret message is undetectable for the uninitiated.
Steganalyzis encompasses all the techniques that attempt to detect the presence
of such hidden information. This latter is usually designed by making
classifiers able to separate innocent images from steganographied ones
according to their differences on well-selected features. We wonder, in this
article whether it is possible to construct a kind of universal steganalyzer
without any knowledge regarding the steganographier side. The effects on the
classification score of a modification of either parameters or methods between
the learning and testing stages are then evaluated, while the possibility to
improve the separation score by merging many methods during learning stage is
deeper investigated.


A Second Order Derivatives based Approach for Steganography

  Steganography schemes are designed with the objective of minimizing a defined
distortion function. In most existing state of the art approaches, this
distortion function is based on image feature preservation. Since smooth
regions or clean edges define image core, even a small modification in these
areas largely modifies image features and is thus easily detectable. On the
contrary, textures, noisy or chaotic regions are so difficult to model that the
features having been modified inside these areas are similar to the initial
ones. These regions are characterized by disturbed level curves. This work
presents a new distortion function for steganography that is based on second
order derivatives, which are mathematical tools that usually evaluate level
curves. Two methods are explained to compute these partial derivatives and have
been completely implemented. The first experiments show that these approaches
are promising.


Universal Scaling Laws in the Dynamics of a Homogeneous Unitary Bose Gas

  We study the dynamics of an initially degenerate homogeneous Bose gas after
an interaction quench to the unitary regime at a magnetic Feshbach resonance.
As the cloud decays and heats, it exhibits a crossover from degenerate- to
thermal-gas behaviour, both of which are characterised by universal scaling
laws linking the particle-loss rate to the total atom number $N$. In the
degenerate and thermal regimes the per-particle loss rate is $\propto N^{2/3}$
and $N^{26/9}$, respectively. The crossover occurs at a universal kinetic
energy per particle and at a universal time after the quench, in units of
energy and time set by the gas density. By slowly sweeping the magnetic field
away from the resonance and creating a mixture of atoms and molecules, we also
map out the dynamics of correlations in the unitary gas, which display a
universal temporal scaling with the gas density, and reach a steady state while
the gas is still degenerate.


From single-particle excitations to sound waves in a box-trapped atomic
  BEC

  We experimentally and theoretically investigate the lowest-lying axial
excitation of an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate in a cylindrical box trap. By
tuning the atomic density, we observe how the nature of the mode changes from a
single-particle excitation (in the low-density limit) to a sound wave (in the
high-density limit). We elucidate the physics of the crossover between the two
limiting regimes using Bogoliubov theory, and find excellent agreement with the
measurements. Finally, for large excitation amplitudes we observe a
non-exponential decay of the mode, suggesting a nonlinear many-body decay
mechanism.


Steganalysis via a Convolutional Neural Network using Large Convolution
  Filters for Embedding Process with Same Stego Key

  For the past few years, in the race between image steganography and
steganalysis, deep learning has emerged as a very promising alternative to
steganalyzer approaches based on rich image models combined with ensemble
classifiers. A key knowledge of image steganalyzer, which combines relevant
image features and innovative classification procedures, can be deduced by a
deep learning approach called Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN). These kind
of deep learning networks is so well-suited for classification tasks based on
the detection of variations in 2D shapes that it is the state-of-the-art in
many image recognition problems. In this article, we design a CNN-based
steganalyzer for images obtained by applying steganography with a unique
embedding key. This one is quite different from the previous study of {\em Qian
et al.} and its successor, namely {\em Pibre et al.} The proposed architecture
embeds less convolutions, with much larger filters in the final convolutional
layer, and is more general: it is able to deal with larger images and lower
payloads. For the "same embedding key" scenario, our proposal outperforms all
other steganalyzers, in particular the existing CNN-based ones, and defeats
many state-of-the-art image steganography schemes.


Difficulties in Probing Nuclear Physics: A Study of $^{44}$Ti and
  $^{56}$Ni

  The nucleosynthetic yield from a supernova explosion depends upon a variety
of effects: progenitor evolution, explosion process, details of the nuclear
network, and nuclear rates. Especially in studies of integrated stellar yields,
simplifications reduce these uncertainties. But nature is much more complex,
and to actually study nuclear rates, we will have to understand the full,
complex set of processes involved in nucleosynthesis. Here we discuss a few of
these complexities and detail how the NuGrid collaboration will address them.


44Ti and 56Ni in core-collapse supernovae

  We investigate the physical conditions where 44Ti and 56Ni are created in
core-collapse supernovae. In this preliminary work we use a series of
post-processing network calculations with parametrized expansion profiles that
are representative of the wide range of temperatures, densities and
electron-to-baryon ratios found in 3D supernova simulations. Critical flows
that affect the final yields of 44Ti and 56Ni are assessed.


Transition from Cassie to Wenzel state in patterned soft elastomer
  sliding contacts

  In this paper, we presented an experimental and theoretical analysis of the
formation of the contact between a smooth elastomer lens and an elastomer
substrate micropatterned with hexagonal arrays of cylindrical pillars. We show
using a JKR model coupled with a full description of the deformation of the
substrate between the pillars that the transition between the top to the full
contact is obtain when the normal load is increased above a well predicted
threshold. We have also shown that above the onset of full contact, the
evolution of the area of full contact was obeying a simple scaling.


Measuring the photon coalescence time-window in the continuous-wave
  regime for resonantly driven semiconductor quantum dots

  We revisit Mandel's notion that the degree of coherence equals the degree of
indistinguishability by performing Hong-Ou-Mandel- (HOM-)type interferometry
with single photons elastically scattered by a cw resonantly driven excitonic
transition of an InAs/GaAs epitaxial quantum dot. We present a comprehensive
study of the temporal profile of the photon coalescence phenomenon which shows
that photon indistinguishability can be tuned by the excitation laser source,
in the same way as their coherence time. A new figure of merit, the coalescence
time window, is introduced to quantify the delay below which two photons are
indistinguishable. This criterion sheds new light on the interpretation of HOM
experiments under cw excitation, particularly when photon coherence times are
longer than the temporal resolution of the detectors. The photon
indistinguishability is extended over unprecedented time scales beyond the
detectors' response time, thus opening new perspectives to conducting quantum
optics with single photons and conventional detectors.


Self-amplification of solid friction in interleaved assemblies

  It is nearly impossible to separate two interleaved phonebooks when held by
their spines. A full understanding of this astonishing demonstration of solid
friction in complex assemblies has remained elusive. In this Letter, we report
on experiments with controlled booklets and show that the force required
increases sharply with the number of sheets. A model captures the effect of the
number of sheets, their thickness and the overlapping distance. Furthermore,
the data collapse onto a self-similar master curve with one dimensionless
amplification parameter. In addition to solving a long-standing familiar
enigma, this model system provides a framework with which one can accurately
measure friction forces and coefficients at low loads, and that has relevance
to complex assemblies from the macro to the nanoscale.


Stress concentration in periodically rough hertzian contact: Hertz to
  soft-flat-punch transition

  We report on the elastic contact between a spherical lens and a patterned
substrate, composed of an hexagonal lattice of cylindrical pillars. The stress
field and the size of the contact area are obtained by means of numerical
methods (discrete Green's function superposition and iterative bisection-like
methods). For small indentations, a transition from a Hertzian to a
Boussinesq-Cerruti-like behavior is observed when the surface fraction of the
substrate that is covered by pillars is increased. In particular, we present a
master curve defined by two dimensionless parameters, which allows to predict
the stress at the center of contact region in terms of the surface fraction
occupied by pillars. The transition between the limiting contact regimes,
Hertzian and Boussinesq-Cerruti-like, is well described by a rational function.
Additionally, a simple model to describe the Boussines-Cerruti-like contact
between the lens and a single elastic pillar, which takes into account the
pillar geometry and the elastic properties of the two bodies, is presented.


Thermal Brillouin noise observed in silicon optomechanical waveguide

  Stimulated Brillouin scattering was recently observed in nanoscale silicon
waveguides. Surprisingly, thermally-driven photon-phonon conversion in these
structures had not yet been reported. Here, we inject an optical probe in a
suspended silicon waveguide and measure its phase fluctuations at the output.
We observe mechanical resonances around 8 GHz with a scattering efficiency of
$10^{-5} \, \text{m}^{-1}$ and a signal-to-noise ratio of 2. The observations
are in agreement with a theory of noise in these waveguides as well as with
stimulated measurements. Our scheme may simplify measurements of mechanical
signatures in nanoscale waveguides and is a step towards a better grasp of
thermal noise in these new continuum optomechanical systems.


A completely bounded non-commutative Choquet boundary for operator
  spaces

  We develop a completely bounded counterpart to the non-commutative Choquet
boundary of an operator space. We show how the class of completely bounded
linear maps is too large to accommodate our purposes. To overcome this
obstacle, we isolate the subset of completely bounded linear maps on an
operator space admitting a dilation of the same norm which is multiplicative on
the generated $C^*$-algebra. We view such maps as analogues of the familiar
unital completely contractive maps, and we exhibit many of their structural
properties. Of particular interest to us are those maps which are extremal with
respect to a natural dilation order. We establish the existence of extremals
and show that they have a certain unique extension property. In particular,
they give rise to $*$-homomorphisms which we use to associate to any
representation of an operator space an entire scale of $C^*$-envelopes. We
conjecture that these $C^*$-envelopes are all $*$-isomorphic, and verify this
in some important cases.


A two-particle, four-mode interferometer for atoms

  We present a free-space interferometer to observe two-particle interference
of a pair of atoms with entangled momenta. The source of atom pairs is a
Bose--Einstein condensate subject to a dynamical instability, and the
interferometer is realized using Bragg diffraction on optical lattices, in the
spirit of our recent Hong--Ou--Mandel experiment. We report an observation
consistent with an entangled state at the input of the interferometer. We
explain how our current setup can be extended to enable a test of a Bell
inequality on momentum observables.


Optomechanical antennas for on-chip beam-steering

  Rapid and low-power control over the direction of a radiating light field is
a major challenge in photonics and a key enabling technology for emerging
sensors and free-space communication links. Current approaches based on bulky
motorized components are limited by their high cost and power consumption,
while on-chip optical phased arrays face challenges in scaling and
programmability. Here, we propose a solid-state approach to beam-steering using
optomechanical antennas. We combine recent progress in simultaneous control of
optical and mechanical waves with remarkable advances in on-chip optical phased
arrays to enable low-power and full two-dimensional beam-steering of
monochromatic light. We present a design of a silicon photonic system made of
photonic-phononic waveguides that achieves 44$^{\circ}$ field of view with
$880$ resolvable spots by sweeping the mechanical wavelength with about a
milliwatt of mechanical power. Using mechanical waves as nonreciprocal, active
gratings allows us to quickly reconfigure the beam direction, beam shape, and
the number of beams. It also enables us to distinguish between light that we
send and receive.


Quantitative modelling of nutrient-limited growth of bacterial colonies
  in microfluidic cultivation

  Nutrient gradients and limitations play a pivotal role in the life of all
microbes, both in their natural habitat as well as in artificial, microfluidic
systems. Spatial concentration gradients of nutrients in densely packed cell
configurations may locally affect the bacterial growth leading to heterogeneous
micropopulations. A detailed understanding and quantitative modelling of
cellular behaviour under nutrient limitations is thus highly desirable. We use
microfluidic cultivations to investigate growth and microbial behaviour of the
model organism Corynebacterium glutamicum under well-controlled conditions.
With a reaction-diffusion type model, parameters are extracted from
steady-state experiments with a one-dimensional nutrient gradient.
Subsequentially, we employ particle-based simulations with these parameters to
predict the dynamical growth of a colony in two dimensions. Comparing the
results of those simulations with microfluidic experiments yields excellent
agreement. Our modelling approach lays the foundation for a better
understanding of dynamic microbial growth processes, both in nature and in
applied biotechnology.


First Measurement of Neutrinos in the BAO Spectrum

  The existence of the cosmic neutrino background is a fascinating prediction
of the hot big bang model. These neutrinos were a dominant component of the
energy density in the early universe and, therefore, played an important role
in the evolution of cosmological perturbations. In particular, fluctuations in
the neutrino density produced a distinct shift in the temporal phase of sound
waves in the primordial plasma, which has recently been detected in the cosmic
microwave background (CMB). In this paper, we report on the first measurement
of this neutrino-induced phase shift in the spectrum of baryon acoustic
oscillations (BAO) of the BOSS DR12 data. Constraining the acoustic scale using
Planck data, and marginalizing over the effects of neutrinos in the CMB, we
find evidence for a non-zero phase shift at greater than 95% confidence. We
also demonstrate the robustness of this result in simulations and forecasts.
Besides being a new measurement of the cosmic neutrino background, our work is
the first application of the BAO signal to early universe physics and a
non-trivial confirmation of the standard cosmological history.


Engineering cryogenic setups for 100-qubit scale superconducting circuit
  systems

  A robust cryogenic infrastructure in form of a wired, thermally optimized
dilution refrigerator is essential for present and future solid-state based
quantum processors. Here, we engineer an extensible cryogenic setup, which
minimizes passive and active heat loads, while guaranteeing rapid qubit control
and readout. We review design criteria for qubit drive lines, flux lines, and
output lines used in typical experiments with superconducting circuits and
describe each type of line in detail. The passive heat load of stainless steel
and NbTi coaxial cables and the active load due to signal dissipation are
measured, validating our robust and extensible concept for thermal anchoring of
attenuators, cables, and other microwave components. Our results are important
for managing the heat budget of future large-scale quantum computers based on
superconducting circuits.


Trapping and sympathetic cooling of single thorium ions for spectroscopy

  Precision optical spectroscopy of exotic ions reveals accurate information
about nuclear properties such as charge radii and magnetic and quadrupole
moments. Thorium ions exhibit unique nuclear properties with high relevance for
testing symmetries of nature. We report loading and trapping of single
$^{232}$Th$^+$ ions in a linear Paul trap, embedded into and sympathetically
cooled by small crystals of trapped $^{40}$Ca$^+$ ions. Trapped Th ions are
identified in a non-destructive manner from the voids in the laser-induced Ca
fluorescence pattern emitted by the crystal, and alternatively, by means of a
time-of-flight signal when extracting ions from the Paul trap and steering them
into an external detector. We have loaded and handled a total of 231 individual
Th ions. We reach a time-of-flight detection efficiency of $\gtrsim 95\, \%$,
consistent with the quantum efficiency of the detector. The sympathetic cooling
technique is expected to be applicable for other isotopes and various charge
states of Th e.g., for future studies of $^{229m}$Th.


Synthetic dissipation and cascade fluxes in a turbulent quantum gas

  Scale-invariant fluxes are the defining property of turbulent cascades, but
their direct measurement is a notorious problem. Here we perform such a
measurement for a direct energy cascade in a turbulent quantum gas. Using a
time-periodic force, we inject energy at a large lengthscale and generate a
cascade in a uniformly-trapped Bose gas. The adjustable trap depth provides a
high-momentum cutoff $k_{\textrm{D}}$, which realises a synthetic dissipation
scale. This gives us direct access to the particle flux across a momentum shell
of radius $k_{\textrm{D}}$, and the tunability of $k_{\textrm{D}}$ allows for a
clear demonstration of the zeroth law of turbulence: we observe that for fixed
forcing the particle flux vanishes as $k_{\textrm{D}}^{-2}$ in the
dissipationless limit $k_{\textrm{D}}\rightarrow \infty$, while the energy flux
is independent of $k_{\textrm{D}}$. Moreover, our time-resolved measurements
give unique access to the pre-steady-state dynamics, when the cascade front
propagates in momentum space.


A Time-of-Flight Imaging System Based on Resonant Photoelastic
  Modulation

  A time-of-flight (ToF) imaging system is proposed and its working principle
demonstrated. To realize this system, a new device, a free-space optical mixer,
is designed and fabricated. A scene is illuminated (flashed) with a megahertz
level amplitude modulated light source and the reflected light from the scene
is collected by a receiver. The receiver consists of the free-space optical
mixer, comprising a photoelastic modulator sandwiched between polarizers,
placed in front of a standard CMOS image sensor. This free-space optical mixer
downconverts the megahertz level amplitude modulation frequencies into the
temporal bandwidth of the image sensor. A full scale extension of the
demonstrated system will be able to measure phases and Doppler shifts for the
beat tones and use signal processing techniques to estimate the distance and
velocity of each point in the illuminated scene with high accuracy.


Lithium Niobate Piezo-optomechanical Crystals

  Demonstrating a device that efficiently connects light, motion, and
microwaves is an outstanding challenge in classical and quantum photonics. We
make significant progress in this direction by demonstrating a photonic crystal
resonator on thin-film lithium niobate (LN) that simultaneously supports
high-$Q$ optical and mechanical modes, and where the mechanical modes are
coupled piezoelectrically to microwaves. For optomechanical coupling, we
leverage the photoelastic effect in LN by optimizing the device parameters to
realize coupling rates $g_0/2\pi\approx 120~\textrm{kHz}$. An optomechanical
cooperativity $C>1$ is achieved leading to phonon lasing. Electrodes on the
nanoresonator piezoelectrically drive mechanical waves on the beam that are
then read out optically allowing direct observation of the phononic bandgap.
Quantum coupling efficiency of $\eta\approx10^{-8}$ from the input microwave
port to the localized mechanical resonance is measured. Improvements of the
microwave circuit and electrode geometry can increase this efficiency and bring
integrated ultra-low-power modulators and quantum microwave-to-optical
converters closer to reality.


Dual-comb spectroscopy for high-temperature reaction kinetics

  In the current study, a quantum-cascade-laser-based dual-comb spectrometer
(DCS) was used to paint a detailed picture of a 1.0 ms high-temperature
reaction between propyne and oxygen. The DCS interfaced with a shock tube to
provide pre-ignition conditions of 1225 K, 2.8 atm, and 2% p-C3H4/18% O2/Ar.
The spectrometer consisted of two free-running, non-stabilized frequency combs
each emitting at 179 wavelengths between 1174 and 1233 cm-1. A free spectral
range, f_r, of 9.86 GHz and a difference in comb spacing, (Delta f_r), of 5
MHz, enabled 4 microsecond time resolution. The accuracy of the spectrometer
was confirmed using a suite of independent laser diagnostics and indicates an
auspicious future for DCS in high-energy reaction kinetics.


Toward convergence of effective field theory simulations on digital
  quantum computers

  We report results for simulating an effective field theory to compute the
binding energy of the deuteron nucleus using a hybrid algorithm on a
trapped-ion quantum computer. Two increasingly complex unitary coupled-cluster
ansaetze have been used to compute the binding energy to within a few percent
for successively more complex Hamiltonians. By increasing the complexity of the
Hamiltonian, allowing more terms in the effective field theory expansion and
calculating their expectation values, we present a benchmark for quantum
computers based on their ability to scalably calculate the effective field
theory with increasing accuracy. Our result of $E_4=-2.220 \pm 0.179$MeV may be
compared with the exact Deuteron ground-state energy $-2.224$MeV. We also
demonstrate an error mitigation technique using Richardson extrapolation on ion
traps for the first time. The error mitigation circuit represents a record for
deepest quantum circuit on a trapped-ion quantum computer.


Numerical investigation of lenses with substructures using the
  perturbative method

  We present a statistical study of the effects induced by substructures on the
deflection potential of dark matter halos in the strong lensing regime. This
investigation is based on the pertubative solution around the Einstein radius
(Alard 2007) in which all the information on the deflection potential is
specified by only a pair of one-dimensional functions on this ring. Using
direct comparison with ray-tracing solutions, we found that the iso-contours of
lensed images predicted by the pertubative solution is reproduced with a mean
error on their radial extension of less than 1% - in units of the Einstein
radius, for reasonable substructure masses. It demonstrates the efficiency of
the approximation to track possible signatures of substructures. We have
evaluated these two fields and studied their properties for different lens
configurations modelled either through massive dark matter halos from a
cosmological N-body simulation, or via toy models of Monte Carlo distribution
of substructures embedded in a triaxial Hernquist potential. As expected, the
angular power spectra of these two fields tend to have larger values for larger
harmonic numbers when substructures are accounted for and they can be
approximated by power-laws, whose values are fitted as a function of the
profile and the distribution of the substructures.


Universal Prethermal Dynamics of Bose Gases Quenched to Unitarity

  Understanding strongly correlated phases of matter, from the quark-gluon
plasma to neutron stars, and in particular the dynamics of such systems, $e.g.$
following a Hamiltonian quench, poses a fundamental challenge in modern
physics. Ultracold atomic gases are excellent quantum simulators for these
problems, thanks to tuneable interparticle interactions and experimentally
resolvable intrinsic timescales. In particular, they give access to the unitary
regime where the interactions are as strong as allowed by quantum mechanics.
Following years of experiments on unitary Fermi gases, unitary Bose gases have
recently emerged as a new experimental frontier. They promise exciting new
possibilities, including universal physics solely controlled by the gas density
and novel forms of superfluidity. Here, through momentum- and time-resolved
studies, we explore both degenerate and thermal homogeneous Bose gases quenched
to unitarity. In degenerate samples we observe universal post-quench dynamics
in agreement with the emergence of a prethermal state with a universal nonzero
condensed fraction. In thermal gases, dynamic and thermodynamic properties
generically depend on both the gas density $n$ and temperature $T$, but we find
that they can still be expressed in terms of universal dimensionless functions.
Surprisingly, the total quench-induced correlation energy is independent of the
gas temperature. Our measurements provide quantitative benchmarks and new
challenges for theoretical understanding.


The Role of Management Practices in Closing the Productivity Gap

  There is no doubt that management practices are linked to the productivity
and performance of a company. However, research findings are mixed. This paper
provides a multi-disciplinary review of the current evidence of such a
relationship and offers suggestions for further exploration. We provide an
extensive review of the literature in terms of research findings from studies
that have been trying to measure and understand the impact that individual
management practices and clusters of management practices have on productivity
at different levels of analysis. We focus our review on Operations Management
(om) and Human Resource Management (hrm) practices as well as joint
applications of these practices. In conclusion, we can say that taken as a
whole, the research findings are equivocal. Some studies have found a positive
relationship between the adoption of management practices and productivity,
some negative and some no association whatsoever. We believe that the lack of
universal consensus on the effect of the adoption of complementary management
practices might be driven either by measurement issues or by the level of
analysis. Consequently, there is a need for further research. In particular,
for a multi-level approach from the lowest possible level of aggregation up to
the firm-level of analysis in order to assess the impact of management
practices upon the productivity of firms.


NuGrid: Toward High Precision Double-Degenerate Merger Simulations with
  SPH in 3D

  We present preliminary results from recent high-resolution double-degenerate
merger simulations with the Smooth Particle Hydrodynamics (SPH) technique. We
put particular emphasis on verification and validation in our effort and show
the importance of details in the initial condition setup for the final outcome
of the simulation. We also stress the dynamical importance of including shocks
in the simulations. These results represent a first step toward a suite of
simulations that will shed light on the question whether double-degenerate
mergers are a viable path toward type 1a supernovae. In future simulations, we
will make use of the capabilities of the NuGrid collaboration in
post-processing SPH particle trajectories with a complete nuclear network to
follow the detailed nuclear reactions during the dynamic merger phase.


Nucleosynthesis Calculations from Core-Collapse Supernovae

  We review some of the uncertainties in calculating nucleosynthetic yields,
focusing on the explosion mechanism. Current yield calculations tend to either
use a piston, energy injection, or enhancement of neutrino opacities to drive
an explosion. We show that the energy injection, or more accurately, an entropy
injection mechanism is best-suited to mimic our current understanding of the
convection-enhanced supernova engine. The enhanced neutrino-opacity technique
is in qualitative disagreement with simulations of core-collapse supernovae and
will likely produce errors in the yields. But piston-driven explosions are the
most discrepant. Piston-driven explosion severely underestimate the amount of
fallback, leading to order-of-magnitude errors in the yields of heavy elements.
To obtain yields accurate to the factor of a few level, we must use entropy or
energy injection and this has become the NuGrid collaboration approach.


Nucleosynthetic Yields from "Collapsars"

  The "collapsar" engine for gamma-ray bursts invokes as its energy source the
failure of a normal supernova and the formation of a black hole. Here we
present the results of the first three-dimensional simulation of the collapse
of a massive star down to a black hole, including the subsequent accretion and
explosion. The explosion differs significantly from the axisymmetric scenario
obtained in two-dimensional simulations; this has important consequences for
the nucleosynthetic yields. We compare the nucleosynthetic yields to those of
hypernovae. Calculating yields from three-dimensional explosions requires new
strategies in post-process nucleosynthesis; we discuss NuGrid's plan for
three-dimensional yields.


Spatial Distribution of Nucleosynthesis Products in Cassiopeia A:
  Comparison Between Observations and 3D Explosion Models

  We examine observed heavy element abundances in the Cassiopeia A supernova
remnant as a constraint on the nature of the Cas A supernova. We compare bulk
abundances from 1D and 3D explosion models and spatial distribution of elements
in 3D models with those derived from X-ray observations. We also examine the
cospatial production of 26Al with other species. We find that the most reliable
indicator of the presence of 26Al in unmixed ejecta is a very low S/Si ratio
(~0.05). Production of N in O/S/Si-rich regions is also indicative. The
biologically important element P is produced at its highest abundance in the
same regions. Proxies should be detectable in supernova ejecta with high
spatial resolution multiwavelength observations.


