Keyword and Keyphrase Extraction Using Centrality Measures on
  Collocation Networks

  Keyword and keyphrase extraction is an important problem in natural language
processing, with applications ranging from summarization to semantic search to
document clustering. Graph-based approaches to keyword and keyphrase extraction
avoid the problem of acquiring a large in-domain training corpus by applying
variants of PageRank algorithm on a network of words. Although graph-based
approaches are knowledge-lean and easily adoptable in online systems, it
remains largely open whether they can benefit from centrality measures other
than PageRank. In this paper, we experiment with an array of centrality
measures on word and noun phrase collocation networks, and analyze their
performance on four benchmark datasets. Not only are there centrality measures
that perform as well as or better than PageRank, but they are much simpler
(e.g., degree, strength, and neighborhood size). Furthermore, centrality-based
methods give results that are competitive with and, in some cases, better than
two strong unsupervised baselines.


Entity-Specific Sentiment Classification of Yahoo News Comments

  Sentiment classification is widely used for product reviews and in online
social media such as forums, Twitter, and blogs. However, the problem of
classifying the sentiment of user comments on news sites has not been addressed
yet. News sites cover a wide range of domains including politics, sports,
technology, and entertainment, in contrast to other online social sites such as
forums and review sites, which are specific to a particular domain. A user
associated with a news site is likely to post comments on diverse topics (e.g.,
politics, smartphones, and sports) or diverse entities (e.g., Obama, iPhone, or
Google). Classifying the sentiment of users tied to various entities may help
obtain a holistic view of their personality, which could be useful in
applications such as online advertising, content personalization, and political
campaign planning. In this paper, we formulate the problem of entity-specific
sentiment classification of comments posted on news articles in Yahoo News and
propose novel features that are specific to news comments. Experimental results
show that our models outperform state-of-the-art baselines.


Privacy Prediction of Images Shared on Social Media Sites Using Deep
  Features

  Online image sharing in social media sites such as Facebook, Flickr, and
Instagram can lead to unwanted disclosure and privacy violations, when privacy
settings are used inappropriately. With the exponential increase in the number
of images that are shared online every day, the development of effective and
efficient prediction methods for image privacy settings are highly needed. The
performance of models critically depends on the choice of the feature
representation. In this paper, we present an approach to image privacy
prediction that uses deep features and deep image tags as feature
representations. Specifically, we explore deep features at various neural
network layers and use the top layer (probability) as an auto-annotation
mechanism. The results of our experiments show that models trained on the
proposed deep features and deep image tags substantially outperform baselines
such as those based on SIFT and GIST as well as those that use "bag of tags" as
features.


A Search/Crawl Framework for Automatically Acquiring Scientific
  Documents

  Despite the advancements in search engine features, ranking methods,
technologies, and the availability of programmable APIs, current-day
open-access digital libraries still rely on crawl-based approaches for
acquiring their underlying document collections. In this paper, we propose a
novel search-driven framework for acquiring documents for scientific portals.
Within our framework, publicly-available research paper titles and author names
are used as queries to a Web search engine. Next, research papers and sources
of research papers are identified from the search results using accurate
classification modules. Our experiments highlight not only the performance of
our individual classifiers but also the effectiveness of our overall
Search/Crawl framework. Indeed, we were able to obtain approximately 0.665
million research documents through our fully-automated framework using about
0.076 million queries. These prolific results position Web search as an
effective alternative to crawl methods for acquiring both the actual documents
and seed URLs for future crawls.


Dynamic Deep Multi-modal Fusion for Image Privacy Prediction

  With millions of images that are shared online on social networking sites,
effective methods for image privacy prediction are highly needed. In this
paper, we propose an approach for fusing object, scene context, and image tags
modalities derived from convolutional neural networks for accurately predicting
the privacy of images shared online. Specifically, our approach identifies the
set of most competent modalities on the fly, according to each new target image
whose privacy has to be predicted. The approach considers three stages to
predict the privacy of a target image, wherein we first identify the
neighborhood images that are visually similar and/or have similar sensitive
content as the target image. Then, we estimate the competence of the modalities
based on the neighborhood images. Finally, we fuse the decisions of the most
competent modalities and predict the privacy label for the target image.
Experimental results show that our approach predicts the sensitive (or private)
content more accurately than the models trained on individual modalities
(object, scene, and tags) and prior privacy prediction works. Also, our
approach outperforms strong baselines, that train meta-classifiers to obtain an
optimal combination of modalities.


Image Privacy Prediction Using Deep Neural Networks

  Images today are increasingly shared online on social networking sites such
as Facebook, Flickr, Foursquare, and Instagram. Despite that current social
networking sites allow users to change their privacy preferences, this is often
a cumbersome task for the vast majority of users on the Web, who face
difficulties in assigning and managing privacy settings. Thus, automatically
predicting images' privacy to warn users about private or sensitive content
before uploading these images on social networking sites has become a necessity
in our current interconnected world.
  In this paper, we explore learning models to automatically predict
appropriate images' privacy as private or public using carefully identified
image-specific features. We study deep visual semantic features that are
derived from various layers of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) as well as
textual features such as user tags and deep tags generated from deep CNNs.
Particularly, we extract deep (visual and tag) features from four pre-trained
CNN architectures for object recognition, i.e., AlexNet, GoogLeNet, VGG-16, and
ResNet, and compare their performance for image privacy prediction. Results of
our experiments on a Flickr dataset of over thirty thousand images show that
the learning models trained on features extracted from ResNet outperform the
state-of-the-art models for image privacy prediction. We further investigate
the combination of user tags and deep tags derived from CNN architectures using
two settings: (1) SVM on the bag-of-tags features; and (2) text-based CNN. Our
results show that even though the models trained on the visual features perform
better than those trained on the tag features, the combination of deep visual
features with image tags shows improvements in performance over the individual
feature sets.


