The MADlib Analytics Library or MAD Skills, the SQL

  MADlib is a free, open source library of in-database analytic methods. It
provides an evolving suite of SQL-based algorithms for machine learning, data
mining and statistics that run at scale within a database engine, with no need
for data import/export to other tools. The goal is for MADlib to eventually
serve a role for scalable database systems that is similar to the CRAN library
for R: a community repository of statistical methods, this time written with
scale and parallelism in mind. In this paper we introduce the MADlib project,
including the background that led to its beginnings, and the motivation for its
open source nature. We provide an overview of the library's architecture and
design patterns, and provide a description of various statistical methods in
that context. We include performance and speedup results of a core design
pattern from one of those methods over the Greenplum parallel DBMS on a
modest-sized test cluster. We then report on two initial efforts at
incorporating academic research into MADlib, which is one of the project's
goals. MADlib is freely available at http://madlib.net, and the project is open
for contributions of both new methods, and ports to additional database
platforms.


Query-Driven Sampling for Collective Entity Resolution

  Probabilistic databases play a preeminent role in the processing and
management of uncertain data. Recently, many database research efforts have
integrated probabilistic models into databases to support tasks such as
information extraction and labeling. Many of these efforts are based on batch
oriented inference which inhibits a realtime workflow. One important task is
entity resolution (ER). ER is the process of determining records (mentions) in
a database that correspond to the same real-world entity. Traditional pairwise
ER methods can lead to inconsistencies and low accuracy due to localized
decisions. Leading ER systems solve this problem by collectively resolving all
records using a probabilistic graphical model and Markov chain Monte Carlo
(MCMC) inference. However, for large datasets this is an extremely expensive
process. One key observation is that, such exhaustive ER process incurs a huge
up-front cost, which is wasteful in practice because most users are interested
in only a small subset of entities. In this paper, we advocate pay-as-you-go
entity resolution by developing a number of query-driven collective ER
techniques. We introduce two classes of SQL queries that involve ER operators
--- selection-driven ER and join-driven ER. We implement novel variations of
the MCMC Metropolis Hastings algorithm to generate biased samples and
selectivity-based scheduling algorithms to support the two classes of ER
queries. Finally, we show that query-driven ER algorithms can converge and
return results within minutes over a database populated with the extraction
from a newswire dataset containing 71 million mentions.


Comparing Clinical Judgment with MySurgeryRisk Algorithm for
  Preoperative Risk Assessment: A Pilot Study

  Background: Major postoperative complications are associated with increased
short and long-term mortality, increased healthcare cost, and adverse long-term
consequences. The large amount of data contained in the electronic health
record (EHR) creates barriers for physicians to recognize patients most at
risk. We hypothesize, if presented in an optimal format, information from
data-driven predictive risk algorithms for postoperative complications can
improve physician risk assessment. Methods: Prospective, non-randomized,
interventional pilot study of twenty perioperative physicians at a quarterly
academic medical center. Using 150 clinical cases we compared physicians' risk
assessment before and after interaction with MySurgeryRisk, a validated
machine-learning algorithm predicting preoperative risk for six major
postoperative complications using EHR data. Results: The area under the curve
(AUC) of MySurgeryRisk algorithm ranged between 0.73 and 0.85 and was
significantly higher than physicians' risk assessments (AUC between 0.47 and
0.69) for all postoperative complications except cardiovascular complications.
The AUC for repeated physician's risk assessment improved by 2% to 5% for all
complications with the exception of thirty-day mortality. Physicians' risk
assessment for acute kidney injury and intensive care unit admission longer
than 48 hours significantly improved after knowledge exchange, resulting in net
reclassification improvement of 12.4% and 16%, respectively. Conclusions: The
validated MySurgeryRisk algorithm predicted postoperative complications with
equal or higher accuracy than pilot cohort of physicians using available
clinical preoperative data. The interaction with algorithm significantly
improved physicians' risk assessment.


