Stress Testing the Booters: Understanding and Undermining the Business  of DDoS Services

  DDoS-for-hire services, also known as booters, have commoditized DDoS attacksand enabled abusive subscribers of these services to cheaply extort, harass andintimidate businesses and people by knocking them offline. However, due to theunderground nature of these booters, little is known about their underlyingtechnical and business structure. In this paper we empirically measure manyfacets of their technical and payment infrastructure. We also perform ananalysis of leaked and scraped data from three major booters---Asylum Stresser,Lizard Stresser and VDO---which provides us with an in-depth view of theircustomers and victims. Finally, we conduct a large-scale payment interventionin collaboration with PayPal and evaluate its effectiveness. Based on ouranalysis we show that these services are responsible for hundreds of thousandsof DDoS attacks and identify potentially promising methods of increasingbooters' costs and undermining these services.

Identifying Products in Online Cybercrime Marketplaces: A Dataset for  Fine-grained Domain Adaptation

  One weakness of machine-learned NLP models is that they typically performpoorly on out-of-domain data. In this work, we study the task of identifyingproducts being bought and sold in online cybercrime forums, which exhibitsparticularly challenging cross-domain effects. We formulate a task thatrepresents a hybrid of slot-filling information extraction and named entityrecognition and annotate data from four different forums. Each of these forumsconstitutes its own "fine-grained domain" in that the forums cover differentmarket sectors with different properties, even though all forums are in thebroad domain of cybercrime. We characterize these domain differences in thecontext of a learning-based system: supervised models see decreased accuracywhen applied to new forums, and standard techniques for semi-supervisedlearning and domain adaptation have limited effectiveness on this data, whichsuggests the need to improve these techniques. We release a dataset of 1,938annotated posts from across the four forums.

Towards Automatic Discovery of Cybercrime Supply Chains

  Cybercrime forums enable modern criminal entrepreneurs to collaborate withother criminals into increasingly efficient and sophisticated criminalendeavors. Understanding the connections between different products andservices can often illuminate effective interventions. However, generating thisunderstanding of supply chains currently requires time-consuming manual effort.  In this paper, we propose a language-agnostic method to automatically extractsupply chains from cybercrime forum posts and replies. Our supply chaindetection algorithm can identify 36% and 58% relevant chains within majorEnglish and Russian forums, respectively, showing improvements over thebaselines of 13% and 36%, respectively. Our analysis of the automaticallygenerated supply chains demonstrates underlying connections between productsand services within these forums. For example, the extracted supply chainilluminated the connection between hack-for-hire services and the selling ofrare and valuable `OG' accounts, which has only recently been reported. Theunderstanding of connections between products and services exposes potentiallyeffective intervention points.

Under the Underground: Predicting Private Interactions in Underground  Forums

  Underground forums where users discuss, buy, and sell illicit services andgoods facilitate a better understanding of the economy and organization ofcybercriminals. Prior work has shown that in particular private interactionsprovide a wealth of information about the cybercriminal ecosystem. Yet, thosemessages are seldom available to analysts, except when there is a leak. Toaddress this problem we propose a supervised machine learning based method ableto predict which public \threads will generate private messages, after apartial leak of such messages has occurred. To the best of our knowledge, weare the first to develop a solution to overcome the barrier posed by limited tono information on private activity for underground forum analysis.Additionally, we propose an automate method for labeling posts, significantlyreducing the cost of our approach in the presence of real unlabeled data. Thismethod can be tuned to focus on the likelihood of users receiving privatemessages, or \threads triggering private interactions. We evaluate theperformance of our methods using data from three real forum leaks. Our resultsshow that public information can indeed be used to predict private activity,although prediction models do not transfer well between forums. We also findthat neither the length of the leak period nor the time between the leak andthe prediction have significant impact on our technique's performance, and thatNLP features dominate the prediction power.

An Analysis of United States Online Political Advertising Transparency

  During the summer of 2018, Facebook, Google, and Twitter created policies andimplemented transparent archives that include U.S. political advertisementswhich ran on their platforms. Through our analysis of over 1.3 million ads withpolitical content, we show how different types of political advertisers aredisseminating U.S. political messages using Facebook, Google, and Twitter'sadvertising platforms. We find that in total, ads with political contentincluded in these archives have generated between 8.67 billion - 33.8 billionimpressions and that sponsors have spent over $300 million USD on advertisingwith U.S. political content.  We are able to improve our understanding of political advertisers on theseplatforms. We have also discovered a significant amount of advertising by quasifor-profit media companies that appeared to exist for the sole purpose ofcreating deceptive online communities focused on spreading political messagingand not for directly generating profits. Advertising by such groups is arelatively recent phenomenon, and appears to be thriving on online platformsdue to the lower regulatory requirements compared to traditional advertisingplatforms.  We have found through our attempts to collect and analyze this data thatthere are many limitations and weaknesses that enable intentional or accidentaldeception and bypassing of the current implementations of these transparencyarchives. We provide several suggestions for how these archives could be mademore robust and useful. Overall, these efforts by Facebook, Google, and Twitterhave improved political advertising transparency of honest and, in some cases,possibly dishonest advertisers on their platforms. We thank the people at thesecompanies who have built these archives and continue to improve them.

