Quantum Harmonic Sieve: Learning DNF with a Classical Example Oracle

  This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to a problem with
*efficiently* predicting the large fourier coefficients. It is being reworked
and will be resubmitted in the near future.


Initializing the Amplitude Distribution of a Quantum State

  To date, quantum computational algorithms have operated on a superposition of
all basis states of a quantum system. Typically, this is because it is assumed
that some function f is known and implementable as a unitary evolution.
However, what if only some points of the function f are known? It then becomes
important to be able to encode only the knowledge that we have about f. This
paper presents an algorithm that requires a polynomial number of elementary
operations for initializing a quantum system to represent only the m known
points of a function f.


A Quantum Computational Learning Algorithm

  An interesting classical result due to Jackson allows polynomial-time
learning of the function class DNF using membership queries. Since in most
practical learning situations access to a membership oracle is unrealistic,
this paper explores the possibility that quantum computation might allow a
learning algorithm for DNF that relies only on example queries. A natural
extension of Fourier-based learning into the quantum domain is presented. The
algorithm requires only an example oracle, and it runs in O(sqrt(2^n)) time, a
result that appears to be classically impossible. The algorithm is unique among
quantum algorithms in that it does not assume a priori knowledge of a function
and does not operate on a superposition that includes all possible states.


Quantum Associative Memory

  This paper combines quantum computation with classical neural network theory
to produce a quantum computational learning algorithm. Quantum computation uses
microscopic quantum level effects to perform computational tasks and has
produced results that in some cases are exponentially faster than their
classical counterparts. The unique characteristics of quantum theory may also
be used to create a quantum associative memory with a capacity exponential in
the number of neurons. This paper combines two quantum computational algorithms
to produce such a quantum associative memory. The result is an exponential
increase in the capacity of the memory when compared to traditional associative
memories such as the Hopfield network. The paper covers necessary high-level
quantum mechanical and quantum computational ideas and introduces a quantum
associative memory. Theoretical analysis proves the utility of the memory, and
it is noted that a small version should be physically realizable in the near
future.


Multiple Star Systems in the Orion Nebula

  This work presents an interferometric study of the massive-binary fraction in
the Orion Trapezium Cluster with the recently comissioned GRAVITY instrument.
We observe a total of 16 stars of mainly OB spectral type. We find three
previously unknown companions for $\theta ^1$ Ori B, $\theta ^2$ Ori B, and
$\theta ^2$ Ori C. We determine a separation for the previously suspected
companion of NU Ori. We confirm four companions for $\theta ^1$ Ori A, $\theta
^1$ Ori C, $\theta ^1$ Ori D, and $\theta ^2$ Ori A, all with substantially
improved astrometry and photometric mass estimates. We refine the orbit of the
eccentric high-mass binary $\theta ^1$ Ori C and we are able to derive a new
orbit for $\theta ^1$ Ori D. We find a system mass of 21.7 $M_{\odot}$ and a
period of $53$ days. Together with other previously detected companions seen in
spectroscopy or direct imaging, eleven of the 16 high-mass stars are multiple
systems. We obtain a total number of 22 companions with separations up to 600
AU. The companion fraction of the early B and O stars in our sample is about 2,
significantly higher than in earlier studies of mostly OB associations. The
separation distribution hints towards a bimodality. Such a bimodality has been
previously found in A stars, but rarely in OB binaries, which up to this point
have been assumed to be mostly compact with a tail of wider companions. We also
do not find a substantial population of equal-mass binaries. The observed
distribution of mass ratios declines steeply with mass, and like the direct
star counts, indicates that our companions follow a standard power law initial
mass function. Again, this is in contrast to earlier findings of flat mass
ratio distributions in OB associations. We exclude collision as a dominant
formation mechanism but find no clear preference for core accretion or
competitive accretion.


The Long-Baseline Neutrino Experiment: Exploring Fundamental Symmetries
  of the Universe

  The preponderance of matter over antimatter in the early Universe, the
dynamics of the supernova bursts that produced the heavy elements necessary for
life and whether protons eventually decay --- these mysteries at the forefront
of particle physics and astrophysics are key to understanding the early
evolution of our Universe, its current state and its eventual fate. The
Long-Baseline Neutrino Experiment (LBNE) represents an extensively developed
plan for a world-class experiment dedicated to addressing these questions. LBNE
is conceived around three central components: (1) a new, high-intensity
neutrino source generated from a megawatt-class proton accelerator at Fermi
National Accelerator Laboratory, (2) a near neutrino detector just downstream
of the source, and (3) a massive liquid argon time-projection chamber deployed
as a far detector deep underground at the Sanford Underground Research
Facility. This facility, located at the site of the former Homestake Mine in
Lead, South Dakota, is approximately 1,300 km from the neutrino source at
Fermilab -- a distance (baseline) that delivers optimal sensitivity to neutrino
charge-parity symmetry violation and mass ordering effects. This ambitious yet
cost-effective design incorporates scalability and flexibility and can
accommodate a variety of upgrades and contributions. With its exceptional
combination of experimental configuration, technical capabilities, and
potential for transformative discoveries, LBNE promises to be a vital facility
for the field of particle physics worldwide, providing physicists from around
the globe with opportunities to collaborate in a twenty to thirty year program
of exciting science. In this document we provide a comprehensive overview of
LBNE's scientific objectives, its place in the landscape of neutrino physics
worldwide, the technologies it will incorporate and the capabilities it will
possess.


