Two Distinct Phases of Bilayer Graphene Films on Ru(0001)

  By combining angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy and scanning tunneling
microscopy we reveal the structural and electronic properties of multilayer
graphene on Ru(0001). We prove that large ethylene exposure allows to
synthesize two distinct phases of bilayer graphene with different properties.
The first phase has Bernal AB stacking with respect to the first graphene
layer, displays weak vertical interaction and electron doping. The long-range
ordered moir\'e pattern modulates the crystal potential and induces replicas of
the Dirac cone and minigaps. The second phase has AA stacking sequence with
respect to the first layer, displays weak structural and electronic modulation
and p-doping. The linearly dispersing Dirac state reveals the
nearly-freestanding character of this novel second layer phase.


Road Pricing for Spreading Peak Travel: Modeling and Design

  A case study of the Singapore road network provides empirical evidence that
road pricing can significantly affect commuter trip timing behaviors. In this
paper, we propose a model of trip timing decisions that reasonably matches the
observed commuters' behaviors. Our model explicitly captures the difference in
individuals' sensitivity to price, travel time and early or late arrival at
destination. New pricing schemes are suggested to better spread peak travel and
reduce traffic congestion. Simulation results based on the proposed model are
provided in comparison with the real data for the Singapore case study.


MDP Optimal Control under Temporal Logic Constraints

  In this paper, we develop a method to automatically generate a control policy
for a dynamical system modeled as a Markov Decision Process (MDP). The control
specification is given as a Linear Temporal Logic (LTL) formula over a set of
propositions defined on the states of the MDP. We synthesize a control policy
such that the MDP satisfies the given specification almost surely, if such a
policy exists. In addition, we designate an "optimizing proposition" to be
repeatedly satisfied, and we formulate a novel optimization criterion in terms
of minimizing the expected cost in between satisfactions of this proposition.
We propose a sufficient condition for a policy to be optimal, and develop a
dynamic programming algorithm that synthesizes a policy that is optimal under
some conditions, and sub-optimal otherwise. This problem is motivated by
robotic applications requiring persistent tasks, such as environmental
monitoring or data gathering, to be performed.


LTL Control in Uncertain Environments with Probabilistic Satisfaction
  Guarantees

  We present a method to generate a robot control strategy that maximizes the
probability to accomplish a task. The task is given as a Linear Temporal Logic
(LTL) formula over a set of properties that can be satisfied at the regions of
a partitioned environment. We assume that the probabilities with which the
properties are satisfied at the regions are known, and the robot can determine
the truth value of a proposition only at the current region. Motivated by
several results on partitioned-based abstractions, we assume that the motion is
performed on a graph. To account for noisy sensors and actuators, we assume
that a control action enables several transitions with known probabilities. We
show that this problem can be reduced to the problem of generating a control
policy for a Markov Decision Process (MDP) such that the probability of
satisfying an LTL formula over its states is maximized. We provide a complete
solution for the latter problem that builds on existing results from
probabilistic model checking. We include an illustrative case study.


Optimal Multi-Robot Path Planning with Temporal Logic Constraints

  In this paper we present a method for automatically planning optimal paths
for a group of robots that satisfy a common high level mission specification.
Each robot's motion in the environment is modeled as a weighted transition
system. The mission is given as a Linear Temporal Logic formula. In addition,
an optimizing proposition must repeatedly be satisfied. The goal is to minimize
the maximum time between satisfying instances of the optimizing proposition.
Our method is guaranteed to compute an optimal set of robot paths. We utilize a
timed automaton representation in order to capture the relative position of the
robots in the environment. We then obtain a bisimulation of this timed
automaton as a finite transition system that captures the joint behavior of the
robots and apply our earlier algorithm for the single robot case to optimize
the group motion. We present a simulation of a persistent monitoring task in a
road network environment.


Pebble Motion on Graphs with Rotations: Efficient Feasibility Tests and
  Planning Algorithms

  We study the problem of planning paths for $p$ distinguishable pebbles
(robots) residing on the vertices of an $n$-vertex connected graph with $p \le
n$. A pebble may move from a vertex to an adjacent one in a time step provided
that it does not collide with other pebbles. When $p = n$, the only collision
free moves are synchronous rotations of pebbles on disjoint cycles of the
graph. We show that the feasibility of such problems is intrinsically
determined by the diameter of a (unique) permutation group induced by the
underlying graph. Roughly speaking, the diameter of a group $\mathbf G$ is the
minimum length of the generator product required to reach an arbitrary element
of $\mathbf G$ from the identity element. Through bounding the diameter of this
associated permutation group, which assumes a maximum value of $O(n^2)$, we
establish a linear time algorithm for deciding the feasibility of such problems
and an $O(n^3)$ algorithm for planning complete paths.


Minimum-violation LTL Planning with Conflicting Specifications

  We consider the problem of automatic generation of control strategies for
robotic vehicles given a set of high-level mission specifications, such as
"Vehicle x must eventually visit a target region and then return to a base,"
"Regions A and B must be periodically surveyed," or "None of the vehicles can
enter an unsafe region." We focus on instances when all of the given
specifications cannot be reached simultaneously due to their incompatibility
and/or environmental constraints. We aim to find the least-violating control
strategy while considering different priorities of satisfying different parts
of the mission. Formally, we consider the missions given in the form of linear
temporal logic formulas, each of which is assigned a reward that is earned when
the formula is satisfied. Leveraging ideas from the automata-based model
checking, we propose an algorithm for finding an optimal control strategy that
maximizes the sum of rewards earned if this control strategy is applied. We
demonstrate the proposed algorithm on an illustrative case study.


Incremental Temporal Logic Synthesis of Control Policies for Robots
  Interacting with Dynamic Agents

  We consider the synthesis of control policies from temporal logic
specifications for robots that interact with multiple dynamic environment
agents. Each environment agent is modeled by a Markov chain whereas the robot
is modeled by a finite transition system (in the deterministic case) or Markov
decision process (in the stochastic case). Existing results in probabilistic
verification are adapted to solve the synthesis problem. To partially address
the state explosion issue, we propose an incremental approach where only a
small subset of environment agents is incorporated in the synthesis procedure
initially and more agents are successively added until we hit the constraints
on computational resources. Our algorithm runs in an anytime fashion where the
probability that the robot satisfies its specification increases as the
algorithm progresses.


A GPS Pseudorange Based Cooperative Vehicular Distance Measurement
  Technique

  Accurate vehicular localization is important for various cooperative vehicle
safety (CVS) applications such as collision avoidance, turning assistant, etc.
In this paper, we propose a cooperative vehicular distance measurement
technique based on the sharing of GPS pseudorange measurements and a weighted
least squares method. The classic double difference pseudorange solution, which
was originally designed for high-end survey level GPS systems, is adapted to
low-end navigation level GPS receivers for its wide availability in ground
vehicles. The Carrier to Noise Ratio (CNR) of raw pseudorange measurements are
taken into account for noise mitigation. We present a Dedicated Short Range
Communications (DSRC) based mechanism to implement the exchange of pseudorange
information among neighboring vehicles. As demonstrated in field tests, our
proposed technique increases the accuracy of the distance measurement
significantly compared with the distance obtained from the GPS fixes.


Optimal Tourist Problem and Anytime Planning of Trip Itineraries

  We introduce and study the problem in which a mobile sensing robot (our
tourist) is tasked to travel among and gather intelligence at a set of
spatially distributed point-of-interests (POIs). The quality of the information
collected at each POI is characterized by some non-decreasing reward function
over the time spent at the POI. With limited time budget, the robot must
balance between spending time traveling to POIs and spending time at POIs for
information collection (sensing) so as to maximize the total reward.
Alternatively, the robot may be required to acquire a minimum mount of reward
and hopes to do so with the least amount of time. We propose a mixed integer
programming (MIP) based anytime algorithm for solving these two NP-hard
optimization problems to arbitrary precision. The effectiveness of our
algorithm is demonstrated using an extensive set of computational experiments
including the planning of a realistic itinerary for a first-time tourist in
Istanbul.


In-Network Distributed Solar Current Prediction

  Long-term sensor network deployments demand careful power management. While
managing power requires understanding the amount of energy harvestable from the
local environment, current solar prediction methods rely only on recent local
history, which makes them susceptible to high variability. In this paper, we
present a model and algorithms for distributed solar current prediction, based
on multiple linear regression to predict future solar current based on local,
in-situ climatic and solar measurements. These algorithms leverage spatial
information from neighbors and adapt to the changing local conditions not
captured by global climatic information. We implement these algorithms on our
Fleck platform and run a 7-week-long experiment validating our work. In
analyzing our results from this experiment, we determined that computing our
model requires an increased energy expenditure of 4.5mJ over simpler models (on
the order of 10^{-7}% of the harvested energy) to gain a prediction improvement
of 39.7%.


An Effective Algorithmic Framework for Near Optimal Multi-Robot Path
  Planning

  We present a centralized algorithmic framework for solving multi-robot path
planning problems in general, two-dimensional, continuous environments while
minimizing globally the task completion time. The framework obtains high levels
of effectiveness through the composition of an optimal discretization of the
continuous environment and the subsequent fast, near-optimal resolution of the
resulting discrete planning problem. This principled approach achieves orders
of magnitudes better performance with respect to both speed and the supported
robot density. For a wide variety of environments, our method is shown to
compute globally near-optimal solutions for fifty robots in seconds with robots
packed close to each other. In the extreme, the method can consistently solve
problems with hundreds of robots that occupy over 30% of the free space.


Printable Hydraulics: A Method for Fabricating Robots by 3D Co-Printing
  Solids and Liquids

  This work introduces a novel technique for fabricating functional robots
using 3D printers. Simultaneously depositing photopolymers and a non-curing
liquid allows complex, pre-filled fluidic channels to be fabricated. This new
printing capability enables complex hydraulically actuated robots and robotic
components to be automatically built, with no assembly required. The technique
is showcased by printing linear bellows actuators, gear pumps, soft grippers
and a hexapod robot, using a commercially-available 3D printer. We detail the
steps required to modify the printer and describe the design constraints
imposed by this new fabrication approach.


Dimensionality Reduction of Massive Sparse Datasets Using Coresets

  In this paper we present a practical solution with performance guarantees to
the problem of dimensionality reduction for very large scale sparse matrices.
We show applications of our approach to computing the low rank approximation
(reduced SVD) of such matrices. Our solution uses coresets, which is a subset
of $O(k/\eps^2)$ scaled rows from the $n\times d$ input matrix, that
approximates the sub of squared distances from its rows to every
$k$-dimensional subspace in $\REAL^d$, up to a factor of $1\pm\eps$. An open
theoretical problem has been whether we can compute such a coreset that is
independent of the input matrix and also a weighted subset of its rows. %An
open practical problem has been whether we can compute a non-trivial
approximation to the reduced SVD of very large databases such as the Wikipedia
document-term matrix in a reasonable time. We answer this question
affirmatively. % and demonstrate an algorithm that efficiently computes a low
rank approximation of the entire English Wikipedia. Our main technical result
is a novel technique for deterministic coreset construction that is based on a
reduction to the problem of $\ell_2$ approximation for item frequencies.


A General Framework for Multi-vehicle Cooperative Localization Using
  Pose Graph

  When a vehicle observes another one, the two vehicles' poses are correlated
by this spatial relative observation, which can be used in cooperative
localization for further increasing localization accuracy and precision. To use
spatial relative observations, we propose to add them into a pose graph for
optimal pose estimation. Before adding them, we need to know the identities of
the observed vehicles. The vehicle identification is formulated as a linear
assignment problem, which can be solved efficiently. By using pose graph
techniques and the start-of-the-art factor composition/decomposition method,
our cooperative localization algorithm is robust against communication delay,
packet loss, and out-of-sequence packet reception. We demonstrate the usability
of our framework and effectiveness of our algorithm through both simulations
and real-world experiments using three vehicles on the road.


Correlated Orienteering Problem and it Application to Persistent
  Monitoring Tasks

  We propose a novel non-linear extension to the Orienteering Problem (OP),
called the Correlated Orienteering Problem (COP). We use COP to model the
planning of informative tours for the persistent monitoring of a spatiotemporal
field with time-invariant spatial correlations, in which the tours are
constrained to have limited length. Our focus in this paper is QCOP a quadratic
COP formulation that only looks at correlations between neighboring nodes in a
node network. The main feature of QCOP is a quadratic utility function
capturing the said spatial correlation. QCOP may be solved using mixed integer
quadratic programming (MIQP), with the resulting anytime algorithm capable of
planning multiple disjoint tours that maximize the quadratic utility. In
particular, our algorithm can quickly plan a near-optimal tour over a network
with up to $150$ nodes. Besides performing extensive simulation studies to
verify the algorithm's correctness and characterize its performance, we also
successfully applied it to two realistic persistent monitoring tasks: (i)
estimation over a synthetic spatiotemporal field, and (ii) estimating the
temperature distribution in the state of Massachusetts.


A Portable, 3D-Printing Enabled Multi-Vehicle Platform for Robotics
  Research and Education

  microMVP is an affordable, portable, and open source micro-scale mobile robot
platform designed for robotics research and education. As a complete and unique
multi-vehicle platform enabled by 3D printing and the maker culture, microMVP
can be easily reproduced and requires little maintenance: a set of six micro
vehicles, each measuring $8\times 5\times 6$ cubic centimeters and weighing
under $100$ grams, and the accompanying tracking platform can be fully
assembled in under two hours, all from readily available components. In this
paper, we describe microMVP's hardware and software architecture, and the
design thoughts that go into the making of the platform. The capabilities of
microMVP APIs are then demonstrated with several single- and multi-robot path
and motion planning algorithms. microMVP supports all common operation systems.


Baxter's Homunculus: Virtual Reality Spaces for Teleoperation in
  Manufacturing

  Expensive specialized systems have hampered development of telerobotic
systems for manufacturing systems. In this paper we demonstrate a telerobotic
system which can reduce the cost of such system by leveraging commercial
virtual reality(VR) technology and integrating it with existing robotics
control software. The system runs on a commercial gaming engine using off the
shelf VR hardware. This system can be deployed on multiple network
architectures from a wired local network to a wireless network connection over
the Internet. The system is based on the homunculus model of mind wherein we
embed the user in a virtual reality control room. The control room allows for
multiple sensor display, dynamic mapping between the user and robot, does not
require the production of duals for the robot, or its environment. The control
room is mapped to a space inside the robot to provide a sense of co-location
within the robot. We compared our system with state of the art automation
algorithms for assembly tasks, showing a 100% success rate for our system
compared with a 66% success rate for automated systems. We demonstrate that our
system can be used for pick and place, assembly, and manufacturing tasks.


Coresets for Vector Summarization with Applications to Network Graphs

  We provide a deterministic data summarization algorithm that approximates the
mean $\bar{p}=\frac{1}{n}\sum_{p\in P} p$ of a set $P$ of $n$ vectors in
$\REAL^d$, by a weighted mean $\tilde{p}$ of a \emph{subset} of $O(1/\eps)$
vectors, i.e., independent of both $n$ and $d$. We prove that the squared
Euclidean distance between $\bar{p}$ and $\tilde{p}$ is at most $\eps$
multiplied by the variance of $P$. We use this algorithm to maintain an
approximated sum of vectors from an unbounded stream, using memory that is
independent of $d$, and logarithmic in the $n$ vectors seen so far. Our main
application is to extract and represent in a compact way friend groups and
activity summaries of users from underlying data exchanges. For example, in the
case of mobile networks, we can use GPS traces to identify meetings, in the
case of social networks, we can use information exchange to identify friend
groups. Our algorithm provably identifies the {\it Heavy Hitter} entries in a
proximity (adjacency) matrix. The Heavy Hitters can be used to extract and
represent in a compact way friend groups and activity summaries of users from
underlying data exchanges. We evaluate the algorithm on several large data
sets.


Functional Co-Optimization of Articulated Robots

  We present parametric trajectory optimization, a method for simultaneously
computing physical parameters, actuation requirements, and robot motions for
more efficient robot designs. In this scheme, robot dimensions, masses, and
other physical parameters are solved for concurrently with traditional motion
planning variables, including dynamically consistent robot states, actuation
inputs, and contact forces. Our method requires minimal user domain knowledge,
requiring only a coarse guess of the target robot configuration sequence and a
parameterized robot topology as input. We demonstrate our results on four
simulated robots, one of which we physically fabricated in order to demonstrate
physical consistency. We demonstrate that by optimizing robot body parameters
alongside robot trajectories, motion planning problems which would otherwise be
infeasible can be made feasible, and actuation requirements can be
significantly reduced.


A Nonparametric Model for Multimodal Collaborative Activities
  Summarization

  Ego-centric data streams provide a unique opportunity to reason about joint
behavior by pooling data across individuals. This is especially evident in
urban environments teeming with human activities, but which suffer from
incomplete and noisy data. Collaborative human activities exhibit common
spatial, temporal, and visual characteristics facilitating inference across
individuals from multiple sensory modalities as we explore in this paper from
the perspective of meetings. We propose a new Bayesian nonparametric model that
enables us to efficiently pool video and GPS data towards collaborative
activities analysis from multiple individuals. We demonstrate the utility of
this model for inference tasks such as activity detection, classification, and
summarization. We further demonstrate how spatio-temporal structure embedded in
our model enables better understanding of partial and noisy observations such
as localization and face detections based on social interactions. We show
results on both synthetic experiments and a new dataset of egocentric video and
noisy GPS data from multiple individuals.


A General Pipeline for 3D Detection of Vehicles

  Autonomous driving requires 3D perception of vehicles and other objects in
the in environment. Much of the current methods support 2D vehicle detection.
This paper proposes a flexible pipeline to adopt any 2D detection network and
fuse it with a 3D point cloud to generate 3D information with minimum changes
of the 2D detection networks. To identify the 3D box, an effective model
fitting algorithm is developed based on generalised car models and score maps.
A two-stage convolutional neural network (CNN) is proposed to refine the
detected 3D box. This pipeline is tested on the KITTI dataset using two
different 2D detection networks. The 3D detection results based on these two
networks are similar, demonstrating the flexibility of the proposed pipeline.
The results rank second among the 3D detection algorithms, indicating its
competencies in 3D detection.


Data-Dependent Coresets for Compressing Neural Networks with
  Applications to Generalization Bounds

  We present an efficient coresets-based neural network compression algorithm
that sparsifies the parameters of a trained fully-connected neural network in a
manner that provably approximates the network's output. Our approach is based
on an importance sampling scheme that judiciously defines a sampling
distribution over the neural network parameters, and as a result, retains
parameters of high importance while discarding redundant ones. We leverage a
novel, empirical notion of sensitivity and extend traditional coreset
constructions to the application of compressing parameters. Our theoretical
analysis establishes guarantees on the size and accuracy of the resulting
compressed network and gives rise to generalization bounds that may provide new
insights into the generalization properties of neural networks. We demonstrate
the practical effectiveness of our algorithm on a variety of neural network
configurations and real-world data sets.


Spatial Uncertainty Sampling for End-to-End Control

  End-to-end trained neural networks (NNs) are a compelling approach to
autonomous vehicle control because of their ability to learn complex tasks
without manual engineering of rule-based decisions. However, challenging road
conditions, ambiguous navigation situations, and safety considerations require
reliable uncertainty estimation for the eventual adoption of full-scale
autonomous vehicles. Bayesian deep learning approaches provide a way to
estimate uncertainty by approximating the posterior distribution of weights
given a set of training data. Dropout training in deep NNs approximates
Bayesian inference in a deep Gaussian process and can thus be used to estimate
model uncertainty. In this paper, we propose a Bayesian NN for end-to-end
control that estimates uncertainty by exploiting feature map correlation during
training. This approach achieves improved model fits, as well as tighter
uncertainty estimates, than traditional element-wise dropout. We evaluate our
algorithms on a challenging dataset collected over many different road types,
times of day, and weather conditions, and demonstrate how uncertainties can be
used in conjunction with a human controller in a parallel autonomous setting.


Response Characterization for Auditing Cell Dynamics in Long Short-term
  Memory Networks

  In this paper, we introduce a novel method to interpret recurrent neural
networks (RNNs), particularly long short-term memory networks (LSTMs) at the
cellular level. We propose a systematic pipeline for interpreting individual
hidden state dynamics within the network using response characterization
methods. The ranked contribution of individual cells to the network's output is
computed by analyzing a set of interpretable metrics of their decoupled step
and sinusoidal responses. As a result, our method is able to uniquely identify
neurons with insightful dynamics, quantify relationships between dynamical
properties and test accuracy through ablation analysis, and interpret the
impact of network capacity on a network's dynamical distribution. Finally, we
demonstrate generalizability and scalability of our method by evaluating a
series of different benchmark sequential datasets.


Liquid Time-constant Recurrent Neural Networks as Universal
  Approximators

  In this paper, we introduce the notion of liquid time-constant (LTC)
recurrent neural networks (RNN)s, a subclass of continuous-time RNNs, with
varying neuronal time-constant realized by their nonlinear synaptic
transmission model. This feature is inspired by the communication principles in
the nervous system of small species. It enables the model to approximate
continuous mapping with a small number of computational units. We show that any
finite trajectory of an $n$-dimensional continuous dynamical system can be
approximated by the internal state of the hidden units and $n$ output units of
an LTC network. Here, we also theoretically find bounds on their neuronal
states and varying time-constant.


Optimal Path Planning under Temporal Logic Constraints

  In this paper we present a method for automatically generating optimal robot
trajectories satisfying high level mission specifications. The motion of the
robot in the environment is modeled as a general transition system, enhanced
with weighted transitions. The mission is specified by a general linear
temporal logic formula. In addition, we require that an optimizing proposition
must be repeatedly satisfied. The cost function that we seek to minimize is the
maximum time between satisfying instances of the optimizing proposition. For
every environment model, and for every formula, our method computes a robot
trajectory which minimizes the cost function. The problem is motivated by
applications in robotic monitoring and data gathering. In this setting, the
optimizing proposition is satisfied at all locations where data can be
uploaded, and the entire formula specifies a complex (and infinite horizon)
data collection mission. Our method utilizes B\"uchi automata to produce an
automaton (which can be thought of as a graph) whose runs satisfy the temporal
logic specification. We then present a graph algorithm which computes a path
corresponding to the optimal robot trajectory. We also present an
implementation for a robot performing a data gathering mission in a road
network.


Persistent Robotic Tasks: Monitoring and Sweeping in Changing
  Environments

  We present controllers that enable mobile robots to persistently monitor or
sweep a changing environment. The changing environment is modeled as a field
which grows in locations that are not within range of a robot, and decreases in
locations that are within range of a robot. We assume that the robots travel on
given closed paths. The speed of each robot along its path is controlled to
prevent the field from growing unbounded at any location. We consider the space
of speed controllers that can be parametrized by a finite set of basis
functions. For a single robot, we develop a linear program that is guaranteed
to compute a speed controller in this space to keep the field bounded, if such
a controller exists. Another linear program is then derived whose solution is
the speed controller that minimizes the maximum field value over the
environment. We extend our linear program formulation to develop a multi-robot
controller that keeps the field bounded. The multi-robot controller has the
unique feature that it does not require communication among the robots.
Simulation studies demonstrate the robustness of the controllers to modeling
errors, and to stochasticity in the environment.


Rebalancing the Rebalancers: Optimally Routing Vehicles and Drivers in
  Mobility-on-Demand Systems

  In this paper we study rebalancing strategies for a mobility-on-demand urban
transportation system blending customer-driven vehicles with a taxi service. In
our system, a customer arrives at one of many designated stations and is
transported to any other designated station, either by driving themselves, or
by being driven by an employed driver. The system allows for one-way trips, so
that customers do not have to return to their origin. When some origins and
destinations are more popular than others, vehicles will become unbalanced,
accumulating at some stations and becoming depleted at others. This problem is
addressed by employing rebalancing drivers to drive vehicles from the popular
destinations to the unpopular destinations. However, with this approach the
rebalancing drivers themselves become unbalanced, and we need to "rebalance the
rebalancers" by letting them travel back to the popular destinations with a
customer. Accordingly, in this paper we study how to optimally route the
rebalancing vehicles and drivers so that stability (in terms of boundedness of
the number of waiting customers) is ensured while minimizing the number of
rebalancing vehicles traveling in the network and the number of rebalancing
drivers needed; surprisingly, these two objectives are aligned, and one can
find the optimal rebalancing strategy by solving two decoupled linear programs.
Leveraging our analysis, we determine the minimum number of drivers and minimum
number of vehicles needed to ensure stability in the system. Interestingly, our
simulations suggest that, in Euclidean network topologies, one would need
between 1/3 and 1/4 as many drivers as vehicles.


Incremental Sampling-based Algorithm for Minimum-violation Motion
  Planning

  This paper studies the problem of control strategy synthesis for dynamical
systems with differential constraints to fulfill a given reachability goal
while satisfying a set of safety rules. Particular attention is devoted to
goals that become feasible only if a subset of the safety rules are violated.
The proposed algorithm computes a control law, that minimizes the level of
unsafety while the desired goal is guaranteed to be reached. This problem is
motivated by an autonomous car navigating an urban environment while following
rules of the road such as "always travel in right lane'' and "do not change
lanes frequently''. Ideas behind sampling based motion-planning algorithms,
such as Probabilistic Road Maps (PRMs) and Rapidly-exploring Random Trees
(RRTs), are employed to incrementally construct a finite concretization of the
dynamics as a durational Kripke structure. In conjunction with this, a weighted
finite automaton that captures the safety rules is used in order to find an
optimal trajectory that minimizes the violation of safety rules. We prove that
the proposed algorithm guarantees asymptotic optimality, i.e., almost-sure
convergence to optimal solutions. We present results of simulation experiments
and an implementation on an autonomous urban mobility-on-demand system.


Scalable Secure Computation of Statistical Functions with Applications
  to $k$-Nearest Neighbors

  Given a set $S$ of $n$ $d$-dimensional points, the $k$-nearest neighbors
(KNN) is the problem of quickly finding $k$ points in $S$ that are nearest to a
query point $q$. The $k$-nearest neighbors problem has applications in machine
learning for classification and regression and also in searching. The secure
version of KNN where either $q$ or $S$ are encrypted, has applications such as
providing services over sensitive (such as medical or localization) data.
  In this work we present the first scalable and efficient algorithm for
solving KNN with Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE) that is realized by a
polynomial whose degree is independent of $n$, the number of points. We
implemented our algorithm in an open source library based on HELib
implementation for the Brakerski-Gentry-Vakuntanthan's FHE scheme, and ran
experiments on MIT's OpenStack cloud. Our experiments show that given a query
point $q$, we can find the set of 20 nearest points out of more than 1000
points in less than an hour.
  Our result introduces a statistical coreset, which is a data summarization
technique that allows statistical functions, such as moments, to be efficiently
and scalably computed. As a central tool, we design a new coin toss technique
which we use to build the coreset. This coin toss technique and computation of
statistical functions may be of independent interest.


Re-purposing Compact Neuronal Circuit Policies to Govern Reinforcement
  Learning Tasks

  We propose an effective method for creating interpretable control agents, by
\textit{re-purposing} the function of a biological neural circuit model, to
govern simulated and real world reinforcement learning (RL) test-beds. Inspired
by the structure of the nervous system of the soil-worm, \emph{C. elegans}, we
introduce \emph{Neuronal Circuit Policies} (NCPs) as a novel recurrent neural
network instance with liquid time-constants, universal approximation
capabilities and interpretable dynamics. We theoretically show that they can
approximate any finite simulation time of a given continuous n-dimensional
dynamical system, with $n$ output units and some hidden units. We model
instances of the policies and learn their synaptic and neuronal parameters to
control standard RL tasks and demonstrate its application for autonomous
parking of a real rover robot on a pre-defined trajectory. For reconfiguration
of the \emph{purpose} of the neural circuit, we adopt a search-based RL
algorithm. We show that our neuronal circuit policies perform as good as deep
neural network policies with the advantage of realizing interpretable dynamics
at the cell-level. We theoretically find bounds for the time-varying dynamics
of the circuits, and introduce a novel way to reason about networks' dynamics.


ChainQueen: A Real-Time Differentiable Physical Simulator for Soft
  Robotics

  Physical simulators have been widely used in robot planning and control.
Among them, differentiable simulators are particularly favored, as they can be
incorporated into gradient-based optimization algorithms that are efficient in
solving inverse problems such as optimal control and motion planning.
Simulating deformable objects is, however, more challenging compared to rigid
body dynamics. The underlying physical laws of deformable objects are more
complex, and the resulting systems have orders of magnitude more degrees of
freedom and therefore they are significantly more computationally expensive to
simulate. Computing gradients with respect to physical design or controller
parameters is typically even more computationally challenging. In this paper,
we propose a real-time, differentiable hybrid Lagrangian-Eulerian physical
simulator for deformable objects, ChainQueen, based on the Moving Least Squares
Material Point Method (MLS-MPM). MLS-MPM can simulate deformable objects
including contact and can be seamlessly incorporated into inference, control
and co-design systems. We demonstrate that our simulator achieves high
precision in both forward simulation and backward gradient computation. We have
successfully employed it in a diverse set of control tasks for soft robots,
including problems with nearly 3,000 decision variables.


Variational End-to-End Navigation and Localization

  Deep learning has revolutionized the ability to learn "end-to-end" autonomous
vehicle control directly from raw sensory data. While there have been recent
advances on extensions to handle forms of navigation instruction, these works
are unable to capture the full distribution of possible actions that could be
taken and to reason about localization of the robot within the environment. In
this paper, we extend end-to-end driving networks with the ability to
understand maps. We define a novel variational network capable of learning from
raw camera data of the environment as well as higher level roadmaps to predict
(1) a full probability distribution over the possible control commands; and (2)
a deterministic control command capable of navigating on the route specified
within the map. Additionally, we formulate how our model can be used to
localize the robot according to correspondences between the map and the
observed visual road topology, inspired by the rough localization that human
drivers can perform. We evaluate our algorithms on real-world driving data, and
reason about the robustness of the inferred steering commands under various
types of rich driving scenarios. In addition, we evaluate our localization
algorithm over a new set of roads and intersections which the model has never
driven through and demonstrate rough localization in situations without any GPS
prior.


Persistent Monitoring of Events with Stochastic Arrivals at Multiple
  Stations

  This paper introduces a new mobile sensor scheduling problem, involving a
single robot tasked with monitoring several events of interest that occur at
different locations. Of particular interest is the monitoring of transient
events that can not be easily forecast. Application areas range from natural
phenomena ({\em e.g.}, monitoring abnormal seismic activity around a volcano
using a ground robot) to urban activities ({\em e.g.}, monitoring early
formations of traffic congestion using an aerial robot). Motivated by those and
many other examples, this paper focuses on problems in which the precise
occurrence times of the events are unknown {\em a priori}, but statistics for
their inter-arrival times are available. The robot's task is to monitor the
events to optimize the following two objectives: {\em (i)} maximize the number
of events observed and {\em (ii)} minimize the delay between two consecutive
observations of events occurring at the same location. The paper considers the
case when a robot is tasked with optimizing the event observations in a
balanced manner, following a cyclic patrolling route. First, assuming the
cyclic ordering of stations is known, we prove the existence and uniqueness of
the optimal solution, and show that the optimal solution has desirable
convergence and robustness properties. Our constructive proof also produces an
efficient algorithm for computing the unique optimal solution with $O(n)$ time
complexity, in which $n$ is the number of stations, with $O(\log n)$ time
complexity for incrementally adding or removing stations. Except for the
algorithm, most of the analysis remains valid when the cyclic order is unknown.
We then provide a polynomial-time approximation scheme that gives a
$(1+\epsilon)$-optimal solution for this more general, NP-hard problem.


Toward a Science of Autonomy for Physical Systems

  Our lives have been immensely improved by decades of automation research --
we are more comfortable, more productive and safer than ever before. Just
imagine a world where familiar automation technologies have failed. In that
world, thermostats don't work -- you have to monitor your home heating system
manually. Cruise control for your car doesn't exist. Every elevator has to have
a human operator to hit the right floor, most manufactured products are
assembled by hand, and you have to wash your own dishes. Who would willingly
adopt that world -- the world of last century -- today? Physical systems --
elevators, cars, home appliances, manufacturing equipment -- were more
troublesome, ore time consuming, less safe, and far less convenient. Now,
suppose we put ourselves in the place someone 20 years in the future, a future
of autonomous systems. A future where transportation is largely autonomous,
more efficient, and far safer; a future where dangerous occupations like mining
or disaster response are performed by autonomous systems supervised remotely by
humans; a future where manufacturing and healthcare are twice as productive per
person-hour by having smart monitoring and readily re-tasked autonomous
physical agents; a future where the elderly and infirm have 24 hour in-home
autonomous support for the basic activities, both physical and social, of daily
life. In a future world where these capabilities are commonplace, why would
someone come back to today's world where someone has to put their life at risk
to do a menial job, we lose time to mindless activities that have no intrinsic
value, or be consumed with worry that a loved one is at risk in their own home?
In what follows, and in a series of associated essays, we expand on these
ideas, and frame both the opportunities and challenges posed by autonomous
physical systems.


