Random Walk Laplacian and Network Centrality Measures

  Random walks over directed graphs are used to model activities in many
domains, such as social networks, influence propagation, and Bayesian graphical
models. They are often used to compute the importance or centrality of
individual nodes according to a variety of different criteria. Here we show how
the pseudoinverse of the "random walk" Laplacian can be used to quickly compute
measures such as the average number of visits to a given node and various
centrality and betweenness measures for individual nodes, both for the network
in general and in the case a subset of nodes is to be avoided. We show that
with a single matrix inversion it is possible to rapidly compute many such
quantities.


Local Linear Convergence of ISTA and FISTA on the LASSO Problem

  We establish local linear convergence bounds for the ISTA and FISTA
iterations on the model LASSO problem. We show that FISTA can be viewed as an
accelerated ISTA process. Using a spectral analysis, we show that, when close
enough to the solution, both iterations converge linearly, but FISTA slows down
compared to ISTA, making it advantageous to switch to ISTA toward the end of
the iteration processs. We illustrate the results with some synthetic numerical
examples.


Incremental Computation of Pseudo-Inverse of Laplacian: Theory and
  Applications

  A divide-and-conquer based approach for computing the Moore-Penrose
pseudo-inverse of the combinatorial Laplacian matrix $(\bb L^+)$ of a simple,
undirected graph is proposed. % The nature of the underlying sub-problems is
studied in detail by means of an elegant interplay between $\bb L^+$ and the
effective resistance distance $(\Omega)$. Closed forms are provided for a novel
{\em two-stage} process that helps compute the pseudo-inverse incrementally.
Analogous scalar forms are obtained for the converse case, that of structural
regress, which entails the breaking up of a graph into disjoint components
through successive edge deletions. The scalar forms in both cases, show
absolute element-wise independence at all stages, thus suggesting potential
parallelizability. Analytical and experimental results are presented for
dynamic (time-evolving) graphs as well as large graphs in general (representing
real-world networks). An order of magnitude reduction in computational time is
achieved for dynamic graphs; while in the general case, our approach performs
better in practice than the standard methods, even though the worst case
theoretical complexities may remain the same: an important contribution with
consequences to the study of online social networks.


Random Walk Fundamental Tensor and Its Applications to Network Analysis

  We first present a comprehensive review of various random walk metrics used
in the literature and express them in a consistent framework. We then introduce
fundamental tensor -- a generalization of the well-known fundamental matrix --
and show that classical random walk metrics can be derived from it in a unified
manner. We provide a collection of useful relations for random walk metrics
that are useful and insightful for network studies. To demonstrate the
usefulness and efficacy of the proposed fundamental tensor in network analysis,
we present four important applications: 1) unification of network centrality
measures, 2) characterization of (generalized) network articulation points, 3)
identification of network most influential nodes, and 4) fast computation of
network reachability after failures.


Avoidance Markov Metrics and Node Pivotality Ranking

  We introduce the avoidance Markov metrics and theories which provide more
flexibility in the design of random walk and impose new conditions on the walk
to avoid (or transit) a specific node (or a set of nodes) before the stopping
criteria. These theories help with applications that cannot be modeled by
classical Markov chains and require more flexibility and intricacy in their
modeling. Specifically, we use them for the pivotality ranking of the nodes in
a network reachabilities. More often than not, it is not sufficient simply to
know whether a source node $s$ can reach a target node $t$ in the network and
additional information associated with reachability, such as how long or how
many possible ways node $s$ may take to reach node $t$, is required. In this
paper, we analyze the pivotality of the nodes which capture how pivotal a role
that a node $k$ or a subset of nodes $S$ may play in the reachability from node
$s$ to node $t$ in a given network. Through some synthetic and real-world
network examples, we show that these metrics build a powerful ranking tool for
the nodes based on their pivotality in the reachability.


Mining Novel Multivariate Relationships in Time Series Data Using
  Correlation Networks

  In many domains, there is significant interest in capturing novel
relationships between time series that represent activities recorded at
different nodes of a highly complex system. In this paper, we introduce
multipoles, a novel class of linear relationships between more than two time
series. A multipole is a set of time series that have strong linear dependence
among themselves, with the requirement that each time series makes a
significant contribution to the linear dependence. We demonstrate that most
interesting multipoles can be identified as cliques of negative correlations in
a correlation network. Such cliques are typically rare in a real-world
correlation network, which allows us to find almost all multipoles efficiently
using a clique-enumeration approach. Using our proposed framework, we
demonstrate the utility of multipoles in discovering new physical phenomena in
two scientific domains: climate science and neuroscience. In particular, we
discovered several multipole relationships that are reproducible in multiple
other independent datasets and lead to novel domain insights.


An End-to-End Deep Learning Histochemical Scoring System for Breast
  Cancer Tissue Microarray

  One of the methods for stratifying different molecular classes of breast
cancer is the Nottingham Prognostic Index Plus (NPI+) which uses breast cancer
relevant biomarkers to stain tumour tissues prepared on tissue microarray
(TMA). To determine the molecular class of the tumour, pathologists will have
to manually mark the nuclei activity biomarkers through a microscope and use a
semi-quantitative assessment method to assign a histochemical score (H-Score)
to each TMA core. Manually marking positively stained nuclei is a time
consuming, imprecise and subjective process which will lead to inter-observer
and intra-observer discrepancies. In this paper, we present an end-to-end deep
learning system which directly predicts the H-Score automatically. Our system
imitates the pathologists' decision process and uses one fully convolutional
network (FCN) to extract all nuclei region (tumour and non-tumour), a second
FCN to extract tumour nuclei region, and a multi-column convolutional neural
network which takes the outputs of the first two FCNs and the stain intensity
description image as input and acts as the high-level decision making mechanism
to directly output the H-Score of the input TMA image. To the best of our
knowledge, this is the first end-to-end system that takes a TMA image as input
and directly outputs a clinical score. We will present experimental results
which demonstrate that the H-Scores predicted by our model have very high and
statistically significant correlation with experienced pathologists' scores and
that the H-Score discrepancy between our algorithm and the pathologists is on
par with the inter-subject discrepancy between the pathologists.


