The `Real' Schwarz Lemma

  The purpose of this note is to discuss the real analogue of the Schwarz lemma
from complex analysis.


Charmonium at CLEO-c

  Results are presented on Charmonium using data collected with the CLEO III
and CLEO-c detectors at the Psi(2S) and Psi(3770). Measurements include, the
first observation of the hc(1P1) state, the electronic widths of the J/Psi and
Psi(2S), the two photon width of the Chic2 and hadronic decays of the Psi(2S).


Bayesian views of generalized additive modelling

  Links between frequentist and Bayesian approaches to smoothing were
highlighted early on in the smoothing literature, and power much of the
machinery that underlies the modern generalized additive modelling framework
(implemented in software such as the R package $\texttt{mgcv}$), but they tend
to be unknown or under appreciated. This article aims to highlight useful links
between Bayesian and frequentist approaches to smoothing, and their practical
applications (with a somewhat $\texttt{mgcv}$-centric viewpoint).


A constructive approach to the special theory of relativity

  Simple physical models of a measuring rod and of a clock are used to
demonstrate the contraction of objects and clock retardation in special
relativity. It is argued that the models could help in promoting student
understanding of special relativity and in distinguishing between dynamical and
purely perspectival effects.


Alternative Experimental Protocol for a PBR-Like Result

  Pusey, Barrett and Rudolph (PBR) have recently proven an important new
theorem in the foundations of quantum mechanics. Here we propose alternative
experimental protocols which lead to the PBR result for a special case and a
weaker PBR-like result generally. Alternative experimental protocols support
the assumption of measurement independence required for the PBR theorem.


Irrationality From The Book

  We generalize Tennenbaum's geometric proof of the irrationality of sqrt(2) to
sqrt(n) for n = 3, 5, 6 and 10. Modified version published in Mathematics
Magazine \textbf{85} (2012), no. 2, 110--114.


Concordances from the standard surface in $S^2\times S^2$

  In this note, we combine the recent 4-dimensional light bulb theorem of David
Gabai and a recent construction of concordances for knots in $S^2\times S^1$
due to Eylem Zeliha Yildiz to construct a concordance between the standard
surface of genus $g$ in $S^2\times S^2$ and any homologous surface.


Search for Rare and Forbidden Decays of D mesons to Final States with
  Electrons

  Using the CLEO-c detector and a data sample of 0.8 million D+D- pairs at the
Psi(3770) a search has been performed for flavor changing neutral current and
lepton number violating decays of D+ mesons to final states with dielectrons.
No signals are observed and 90% confidence limits are set for specific decay
modes in the range of a few times ten to the minus six.


Gluon condensates at finite temperature

  We consider various special cases of gluon condensates at finite temperature.
The gluon condensate for an ideal gas of gluons with a given vacuum expectation
value is introduced for the sake of comparison with that calculated using the
recent finite temperature lattice gauge simulations for a pure Yang-Mills SU(3)
gauge theory at the known critical temperature. We extend this comparison using
the high precision lattice data for two light dynamical quarks. The
investigation of these three cases show some interesting differences arising
from the strong interaction alone and in the presence of quarks. In this
context we discuss some newer simulations for heavier quarks and other
properties related to gluon condensation.


Entropy for $SU(3)_c$ Quark States

  We discuss the quantum state structure using the standard model for three
colored quarks in the fundamental representations of $SU(3)_c$ making up the
singlet ground state of the hadrons. This allows us to calculate a finite von
Neumann entropy from the quantum reduced density matrix, which we explicitly
evaluate for the quarks in a model for the meson and baryon states. Finally we
look into the general effects and implications of entanglement in the $SU(3)_c$
color space.


Entropy for Diquarks in exotic Quark States

  We discuss the quantum state structure on the basis of $SU(3)_c$ for some
known exotic quark systems using a model which describes these particular
states as highly correlated diquarks and antidiquarks. We are then able to
calculate for a single colored diquark a finite von Neumann entropy from the
quantum reduced density matrix, from which we explicitly evaluate the
likelihood of certain arrangements of quark flavors in a given diquark. These
results can be related to some recently experimentally found pentaquark systems
as well as a possible model for the scalar mesons.


Lattice QCD Calculation for the Physical Equation of State

  In this report we consider the numerical simulations at finite temperature
using lattice QCD data for the computation of the thermodynamical quantities
including the pressure, energy density and the entropy density. These physical
quantities can be related to the equation of state for quarks and gluons. We
shall apply the lattice data to the evaluation of the specific structure of the
gluon and quark condensates at finite temperature in relation to the
deconfinement and chiral phase transitions. Finally we mention the quantum
nature of the phases at lower temperatures.


Embedding Cohen algebras using pcf theory

  Using a theorem from pcf theory, we show that for any singular cardinal nu,
the product of the Cohen forcing notions on kappa, kappa < nu adds a generic
for the Cohen forcing notion on nu^+. This solves Problem 5.1 in Miller's list
(attributed to Rene David and Sy Friedman).


Subspaces of Knot Spaces

  The inclusion of the space of all knots of a prescribed writhe in a
particular isotopy class into the space of all knots in that isotopy class is a
weak homotopy equivalence.


How complicated must an optical component be?

  We analyze how complicated a linear optical component has to be if it is to
perform one of a range of functions. Specifically, we devise an approach to
evaluating the number of real parameters that must be specified in the device
design or fabrication, based on the singular value decomposition of the linear
operator that describes the device. This approach can be used for essentially
any linear device, including space-, frequency-, or time-dependent systems, in
optics or in other linear wave problems. We analyze examples including spatial
mode converters and various classes of wavelength demultiplexers. We consider
limits on the functions that can be performed by simple optical devices such as
thin lenses, mirrors, gratings, modulators, and fixed optical filters, and
discuss the potential for greater functionalities using modern nanophotonics.


Self-aligning universal beam coupler

  We propose a device that can take an arbitrary monochromatic input beam and
couple it into a single-mode guide or beam. Simple feedback loops from
detectors to modulator elements allow the device to adapt automatically to any
specific input beam form. Potential applications include automatic compensation
for misalignment and defocusing of an input beam, coupling of complex modes or
multiple beams from fibers or free space to single-mode guides, and retaining
coupling to a moving source. Straightforward extensions allow multiple
different overlapping orthogonal input beams to be separated simultaneously to
different single-mode guides with no splitting loss in principle. The approach
is suitable for implementation in integrated optics platforms that offer
elements such as phase shifters, Mach-Zehnder interferometers, grating
couplers, and integrated monitoring detectors, and the basic approach is
applicable in principle to other types of waves, such as microwaves or
acoustics.


On the number of maximal independent sets in a graph

  Miller and Muller (1960) and independently Moon and Moser (1965) determined
the maximum number of maximal independent sets in an $n$-vertex graph. We give
a new and simple proof of this result.


Fundamental Limit to Linear One-Dimensional Slow Light Structures

  Using a new general approach to limits in optical structures that counts
orthogonal waves generated by scattering, we derive an upper limit to the
number of bits of delay possible in one-dimensional slow light structures that
are based on linear optical response to the signal field. The limit is
essentially the product of the length of the structure in wavelengths and the
largest relative change in dielectric constant anywhere in the structure at any
frequency of interest. It holds for refractive index, absorption or gain
variations with arbitrary spectral or spatial form. It is otherwise completely
independent of the details of the structure's design, and does not rely on
concepts of group velocity or group delay.


Self-Configuring Universal Linear Optical Component

  We show how to design an optical device that can perform any linear function
or coupling between inputs and outputs. This design method is progressive,
requiring no global optimization. We also show how the device can configure
itself progressively, avoiding design calculations and allowing the device to
stabilize itself against drifts in component properties and to continually
adjust itself to changing conditions. This self-configuration operates by
training with the desired pairs of orthogonal input and output functions, using
sets of detectors and local feedback loops to set individual optical elements
within the device, with no global feedback or multiparameter optimization
required. Simple mappings, such as spatial mode conversions and polarization
control, can be implemented using standard planar integrated optics. In the
spirit of a universal machine, we show that other linear operations, including
frequency and time mappings, as well as non-reciprocal operation, are possible
in principle, even if very challenging in practice, thus proving there is at
least one constructive design for any conceivable linear optical component;
such a universal device can also be self-configuring. This approach is general
for linear waves, and could be applied to microwaves, acoustics and quantum
mechanical superpositions.


Structural relaxation in Morse clusters: Energy landscapes

  We perform a comprehensive survey of the potential energy landscapes of
13-atom Morse clusters, and describe how they can be characterized and
visualized. Our aim is to detail how the global features of the funnel-like
surface change with the range of the potential, and to relate these changes to
the dynamics of structural relaxation. We find that the landscape becomes
rougher and less steep as the range of the potential decreases, and that
relaxation paths to the global minimum become more complicated.


Energy Landscape of a Model Protein

  The potential energy surface of an off-lattice model protein is characterized
in detail by constructing a disconnectivity graph and by examining the
organisation of pathways on the surface. The results clearly reveal the
frustration exhibited by this system and explain why it does not fold
efficiently to the global potential energy minimum. In contrast, when the
frustration is removed by constructing a `Go-type' model, the resulting graph
exhibits the characteristics expected for a folding funnel.


Novel Structural Motifs in Clusters of Dipolar Spheres: Knots, Links and
  Coils

  We present the structures of putative global potential energy minima for
clusters bound by the Stockmayer (Lennard-Jones plus point dipole) potential. A
rich variety of structures is revealed as the cluster size and dipole strength
are varied. Most remarkable are groups of closed-loop structures with the
topology of knots and links. Despite the large number of possibilities,
energetically optimal structures exhibit only a few such topologies.


The Jet Multiplicity as a Function of Thrust

  We calculate the average multiplicity of jets in e+e- annihilation as a
function of both the jet resolution parameter, y_cut, and the thrust T. Our
result resums to all orders the leading and next-to-leading logarithms in y_cut
and 1-T, and is exact up to second order in alpha_s. This allows a comparison
between the number of jets found using jet algorithms and the ability to
distinguish different jet topologies via thrust.


Secondary Heavy Quark Pair Production in e+e- Annihilation

  The multiplicity of heavy quarks from gluon splitting in e+e- annihilation
has now been theoretically calculated and experimentally measured at LEP.
However, the experimental measurement requires theoretical input for the shape
of the multiplicity with respect to an event shape. In this paper we calculate
the multiplicity of heavy quarks from gluon splitting in e+e- annihilation as a
function of the heavy jet mass of the event, to next-to-leading logarithmic
accuracy. We compare our result with Monte Carlo predictions.


The Multiplicity of Heavy Quark Pairs from Gluon Splitting in e+e-
  Annihilation

  I will briefly review the progress which has been made in the investigation
of secondary heavy quark production at LEP. I will show why a calculation of
the secondary heavy quark multiplicity, keeping the dependence on an event
shape variable, is essential for better exploitation of data, and I will
present the results of such a calculation. This will be compared to Monte Carlo
studies.


Linear Collider Physics

  Studies of the physics potential of the Future Linear Collider are
establishing a broad programme which will start in the region of 350 to 500 GeV
C. of M. energy. The main goal is to understand why the standard model works;
by studying the properties of the Higgs sector, if it is within reach, and by
exploring the complex world of Supersymmetry, if it is real. If the Higgs boson
is not found soon, then the Linear Collider can test the standard model with
high precision measurements, both at energies approaching 1 TeV and with high
statistics at the Z0.


Algorithms for graded injective resolutions and local cohomology over
  semigroup rings

  Let Q be an affine semigroup generating Z^d, and fix a finitely generated
Z^d-graded module M over the semigroup algebra k[Q] for a field k. We provide
an algorithm to compute a minimal Z^d-graded injective resolution of M up to
any desired cohomological degree. As an application, we derive an algorithm
computing the local cohomology modules H^i_I(M) supported on any monomial (that
is, Z^d-graded) ideal I. Since these local cohomology modules are neither
finitely generated nor finitely cogenerated, part of this task is defining a
finite data structure to encode them.


Counterfactual reasoning in time-symmetric quantum mechanics

  A qualification is suggested for the counterfactual reasoning involved in
some aspects of time-symmetric quantum theory (which involves ensembles
selected by both the initial and final states). The qualification is that the
counterfactual reasoning should only apply to times when the quantum system has
been subjected to physical interactions which place it in a ``measurement-ready
condition" for the unperformed experiment on which the counterfactual reasoning
is based. The defining characteristic of a "measurement-ready condition" is
that a quantum system could be found to have the counterfactually ascribed
property without direct physical interaction with the eigenstate corresponding
to that property.


Pre- and post-selected ensembles and time-symmetry in quantum mechanics

  An expression is proposed for the quantum mechanical state of a pre- and
post-selected ensemble, which is an ensemble determined by the final as well as
the initial state of the quantum systems involved. It is shown that the
probabilities calculated from the proposed state agree with previous
expressions, for cases where they both apply. The same probabilities are found
when they are calculated in the forward- or reverse-time directions. This work
was prompted by several problems raised by Shimony recently in relation to the
state, and time symmetry, of pre- and post-selected ensembles.


CP Asymmetries in Higgs decays to ZZ at the LHC

  We examine the effect of a general HZZ coupling through a study of the Higgs
decay to leptons via Z bosons at the LHC. We discuss various methods for
placing limits on additional couplings, including measurement of the partial
width, threshold scans, and asymmetries constructed from angular observables.
We find that only the asymmetries provide a definitive test of additional
couplings. We further estimate the significances they provide.


Structural trends in clusters of quadrupolar spheres

  The influence of quadrupolar interactions on the structure of small clusters
is investigated by adding a point quadrupole of variable strength to the
Lennard-Jones potential. Competition arises between sheet-like arrangements of
the particles, favoured by the quadrupoles, and compact structures, favoured by
the isotropic Lennard-Jones attraction. Putative global potential energy minima
are obtained for clusters of up to 25 particles using the basin-hopping
algorithm. A number of structural motifs and growth sequences emerge, including
star-like structures, tubes, shells and sheets. The results are discussed in
the context of colloidal self-assembly.


State-dependent rotations of spins by weak measurements

  IIt is shown that a weak measurement of a quantum system produces a new state
of the quantum system which depends on the prior state, as well as the
(uncontrollable) measured position of the pointer variable of the weak
measurement apparatus. The result imposes a constraint on hidden-variable
theories which assign a different state to a quantum system than standard
quantum mechanics. The constraint means that a crypto-nonlocal hidden-variable
theory can be ruled out in a more direct way than previously.


Control and tuning of a suspended Fabry-Perot cavity using
  digitally-enhanced heterodyne interferometry

  We present the first demonstration of real-time closed-loop control and
deterministic tuning of an independently suspended Fabry-Perot optical cavity
using digitally-enhanced heterodyne interferometry, realising a peak
sensitivity of $\sim$10 pm$/\sqrt{\mathrm{Hz}}$ over the 10-1000 Hz frequency
band. The methods presented are readily extensible to multiple coupled
cavities. As such, we anticipate that refinements of this technique may find
application in future interferometric gravitational-wave detectors.


Definable maximal discrete sets in forcing extensions

  Let $\mathcal R$ be a $\Sigma^1_1$ binary relation, and recall that a set $A$
is $\mathcal R$-discrete if no two elements of $A$ are related by $\mathcal R$.
We show that in the Sacks and Miller forcing extensions of $L$ there is a
$\Delta^1_2$ maximal $\mathcal{R}$-discrete set. We use this to answer in the
negative the main question posed in [5] by showing that in the Sacks and Miller
extensions there is a $\Pi^1_1$ maximal orthogonal family ("mof") of Borel
probability measures on Cantor space. A similar result is also obtained for
$\Pi^1_1$ mad families. By contrast, we show that if there is a Mathias real
over $L$ then there are no $\Sigma^1_2$ mofs.


High scale boundary conditions with an additional complex singlet

  We investigate Planck scale boundary conditions on Higgs quartic interactions
and their $\beta$-functions in the SM augmented by an additional complex
scalar. We use renormalisation group running at two-loops, and include both
theoretical and experimental constraints. We find that the boundary condition
$\lambda=\beta_\lambda=0$ at the Planck scale is compatible with the current
Higgs and top mass measurements, but requires additional scalars lighter than
about $600\,$GeV.


TopFitter: Fitting top-quark Wilson Coefficients to Run II data

  We describe the latest TopFitter analysis, which uses top quark observables
to fit the Wilson Coefficients of the SM augmented with dimension-6 operators.
In particular, we discuss the inclusion of new LHC Run II data and the
implementation of particle-level observables.


Confronting Scherk-Schwarz orbifold models with LHC data

  We will outline our recent efforts aimed at analysing a class of models known
as orbifold GUTs and their phenomenology in a variety of minimal and
non-minimal settings. We examine the minimal SU(5) models, rule them out, and
proceed by extending them with an additional scalar field along with a gauge
extension via SU(5)xU(1) models. We end up by commenting on the future
improvements needed to more accurately handle exclusions along with tracing the
U(1) gauge extensions to more complete 6D theories.


Scherk-Schwarz orbifolds at the LHC

  We examine orbifold theories of Grand Unification with Scherk-Schwarz
twisting, performing a renormalisation group analysis and applying low energy
experimental constraints. We rule out the minimal SU(5) models, and consider
simple extensions including additional fields, such as an additional scalar
field, or additional symmetries, such as $SU(5)\times U(1)$ or $E_6$. We find
that it is very difficult to generate a large enough Higgs mass while
simultaneously passing LHC experimental search constraints.


Local superfluid densities probed via current-induced superconducting
  phase gradients

  We have developed a superconducting phase gradiometer consisting of two
parallel DNA-templated nanowires connecting two thin-film leads. We have ramped
the cross current flowing perpendicular to the nanowires, and observed
oscillations in the lead-to-lead resistance due to cross-current-induced phase
differences. By using this gradiometer we have measured the temperature and
magnetic field dependence of the superfluid density and observed an
amplification of phase gradients caused by elastic vortex displacements. We
examine our data in light of Miller-Bardeen theory of dirty superconductors and
a microscale version of Campbell's model of field penetration.


First Measurement of the Inclusive Branching Ratio of b Hadrons to phi
  Mesons in Z0 Decays

  The inclusive production rate of phi mesons from the decay of b hadrons
produced in Z0 decays was measured to be Br(b->phi+X) =
0.0282+-0.0013(stat.)+-0.0019(syst.), using data collected by the OPAL detector
at LEP.


Spectral Density on the Lattice

  Spectral density in the pseudoscalar and vector channels is extracted from
the SU(2) lattice quenched data. It is shown to consist of three sharp poles
within the energy range accessible on the lattice.


Measuring the period of the delta Scuti variable U1425-01208594 in
  Cassiopeia

  The variability of U1425-01208594 was recently discovered by Schmidtobreick
et al, who suggested that it is a member of the delta Scuti family of pulsating
stars. Photometry conducted by the authors revealed a period of 0.06695(8) d
and a peak-to-peak amplitude of 0.014 mag.


The 2008 February superoutburst of V452 Cas

  Observations of the 2008 February outburst of V452 Cas show that the profile,
duration and magnitude at maximum were very similar to the previous
superoutburst in 2007 September. Low-amplitude variations consistent with
previously observed superhumps were also seen.


A Breakthrough in Sphere Packing: The Search for Magic Functions

  This paper is an exposition, written for the Nieuw Archief voor Wiskunde,
about the two recent breakthrough results in the theory of sphere packings. It
includes an interview with Henry Cohn, Abhinav Kumar, Stephen D. Miller, and
Maryna Viazovska.


Adversarial Learning: A Critical Review and Active Learning Study

  This papers consists of two parts. The first is a critical review of prior
art on adversarial learning, identifying some significant limitations of
previous works. The second part is an experimental study considering
adversarial active learning and an investigation of the efficacy of a mixed
sample selection strategy for combating an adversary who attempts to disrupt
the classifier learning.


The Gluon Condensate in QCD at Finite Temperature

  We begin with the discussion of the relationship between the trace of the
energy momentum tensor and the gluon condensate at finite temperatures. Using
the recent numerical data from the simulations of lattice gauge theory for
quantum chromodynamics(QCD) we present the computational evaluations for the
gluon condensate. A short discussion of the properties of deconfinement and the
implications on the high temperature limit are included. We also mention the
case of the massive quarks where some of the properties of the condensate
appear to change. We put together these results with some ideas related to the
dilatation current. We draw the conclusion that the nature of the strong
interactions implies that the thermodynamics of quarks and gluons never
approach even at very high temperatures that of an ideal ultrarelativistic gas.


Anomalous Currents and Gluon Condensates in QCD at Finite Temperature

  After a short description of the currents coming from the known conservation
laws in classical physics, we look at some further cases which arise after
quantization in relation to quantum chromodynamics (QCD) at finite temperature.
In these cases, however, some basic changes appear with the anomalies. First we
go into the relationship between the trace of the energy momentum tensor and
the gluon condensate at finite temperature. Using the recent numerical data
from the simulations of lattice guage theory we present the computational
evaluations for the gluon condensates at finite temperature. Thereafter we
discuss the effects of chiral symmetry breaking and its restoration at finite
temperature through the chiral phase transition. In this context we investigate
the properties of the gluon condensate in the presence of massive dynamical
quarks using numerical data. Finally we put together these results with a
discussion of the various anomalous currents and their relationship to our
findings here.


Linear Collider Physics

  The International Linear Collider has a rich physics programme, whatever lies
beyond the standard model. Accurate measurement of the top quark mass is needed
to constrain the model or its extensions. If there is a light Higgs boson the
LHC should see it, but the ILC will pin down its characteristics and test them
against model predictions. If Supersymmetric particles appear the ILC will
measure a complementary set of them to those seen at the LHC, and may allow
extrapolation to the Grand Unified scale. And if a strong electroweak sector is
indicated the ILC will be sensitive to the presence of new structures in
difermion and diboson systems up to higher masses than the direct search range
of the LHC. Beyond the LHC and ILC there could be need for a multi TeV lepton
collider.


All linear optical devices are mode converters

  We show that every linear optical component can be completely described as a
device that converts one set of orthogonal input modes, one by one, to a
matching set of orthogonal output modes. This result holds for any linear
optical structure with any specific variation in space and/or time of its
structure. There are therefore preferred orthogonal "mode converter" basis sets
of input and output functions for describing any linear optical device, in
terms of which the device can be described by a simple diagonal operator. This
result should help us understand what linear optical devices we can and cannot
make. As illustrations, we use this approach to derive a general expression for
the alignment tolerance of an efficient mode coupler and to prove that
loss-less combining of orthogonal modes is impossible.


The highest lowest zero of general L-functions

  Stephen D. Miller showed that, assuming the generalized Riemann Hypothesis,
every entire $L$-function of real archimedian type has a zero in the interval
$\frac12+i t$ with $-t_0 < t < t_0$, where $t_0\approx 14.13$ corresponds to
the first zero of the Riemann zeta function. We give an example of a self-dual
degree-4 $L$-function whose first positive imaginary zero is at $t_1\approx
14.496$. In particular, Miller's result does not hold for general
$L$-functions. We show that all $L$-functions satisfying some additional
(conjecturally true) conditions have a zero in the interval $(-t_2,t_2)$ with
$t_2\approx 22.661$.


