Matters of Gravity, The Newsletter of the Topical Group on Gravitation
  of the American Physical Society, Volume 37, Winter 2011

  GGR News: GGR Program at the APS meeting in Anaheim, CA by David Garfinkle
  We hear that..., by David Garfinkle
  100 years ago, by David Garfinkle
  Research Briefs: Endpoint of the Gregory-Laflamme Instability, by Gary
Horowitz
  Conference Reports: Chandrasekhar Symposium, by David Garfinkle


Matters of Gravity, The Newsletter of the Topical Group on Gravitation
  of the American Physical Society, Volume 39, Winter 2012

  GGR News: News From NSF, by David Garfinkle We hear that..., by David
Garfinkle GGR Program at the APS meeting in Atlanta, GA, by David Garfinkle
  Research Briefs: AdS instability, by David Garfinkle
  Conference reports: Isenberg Fest, by Robert M. Wald COSMO 11, by Carlos
Martins Astro-GR 6 2011, by Sascha Husa et al


Matters of Gravity, The Newsletter of the Topical Group in Gravitation
  of the American Physical Society, Volume 33, Winter 2009

  GGR News:
  o GGR program at the APS meeting in Denver, by David Garfinkle
  o we hear that ..., by David Garfinkle
  o 400 years ago, by David Garfinkle
  Conference reports:
  o The 24th Texas Symposium on Relativistic Astrophysics, by Scott Hughes
  o Loop Quantum Cosmology Workshop, by Parampreet Singh


Collaborating with David Gross; Descendants of the Chiral Anomaly

  I recall my collaboration with David Gross. A result about descendants of the
chiral anomaly is presented: Chern-Simons terms can be written as total
derivatives.


Transport techniques for non-Gaussianity

  This proceedings contribution provides a brief update on the transport
approach to calculating the statistics of perturbations produced during
inflation. It is based in particular on work in collaboration with Gemma
Anderson and David Seery.


Splitting cycles in graphs

  The goal of this paper is to describe a sufficient condition on cycles in
graphs for which the edge ideal is splittable. We give an explicit splitting
function for such ideals.


Challenges concerning the discriminatory optical force for chiral
  molecules

  In response to arXiv:1506.07423v1 we discuss the authors work, and our own,
on proposed schemes aiming to achieve a discriminatory optical force for chiral
molecules.


Large widely-connected spaces

  We show that there are widely-connected spaces of arbitrarily large
cardinality, answering a question by David Bellamy.


Definable maximal cofinitary groups of intermediate size

  Using almost disjoint coding, we show that for each $1<M<N<\omega$
consistently $\mathfrak{d}=\mathfrak{a}_g=\aleph_M<\mathfrak{c}=\aleph_N$,
where $\mathfrak{a}_g=\aleph_M$ is witnessed by a $\Pi^1_2$ maximal cofinitary
group.


Matters of Gravity, The Newsletter of the Topical Group in Gravitation
  of the American Physical Society, Volume 31, Winter 2008

  GGR News: GGR program at the APS meeting in St. Louis we hear that... by
David Garfinkle 100 years ago, by David Garfinkle
  Research Briefs: The Torsion Pendulum's Contribution to Dark Energy, by Bill
Hamilton
  Conference Reports: 10th Capra Meeting on Radiation Reaction, by Carlos
Sopuerta Quantum Gravity in the Southern Cone IV, by Rafael A. Porto


Matters of Gravity, The Newsletter of the Topical Group on Gravitation
  of the American Physical Society, Volume 35, Winter 2010

  GGR News:
  - GGR Program at the APS meeting in Washington D.C., by David Garfinkle
  - we hear that..., by David Garfinkle
  Research Briefs:
  - Supernovae modelling, by Ian Hawke
  Conference Reports:
  - ADM-50, by Richard Woodard


Matters of Gravity, The Newsletter of the Topical Group on Gravitation
  of the American Physical Society, Volume 34, Fall 2009

  GGR News:
  New Matters of Gravity Correspondents, by David Garfinkle
  we hear that..., by David Garfinkle
  Research Briefs:
  Numerical Relativity Studies of Black Hole Kicks, by Pablo Laguna
  Conference Reports:
  AbhayFest, by Chris Beetle
  Eastern Gravity Meeting, by Jeff Winicour
  Benasque Workshop on Gravity, by Roberto Emparan and Veronika Hubeny
  Workshop on the Fluid-Gravity Correspondence, by Mukund Rangamani


Studies with Ultracold Metastable Hydrogen

  This thesis describes the first detailed studies of trapped metastable
(2S-state) hydrogen.


Dark Energy: Beyond General Relativity?

  6 pages; Subm. to AIP Conf. Proceedings


Exotic Fermions

  I review the current limits on the mixing of ordinary and exotic fermions.


The Sebastiani-Thom Isomorphism in the Derived Category

  We prove a derived category version of the Sebastiani-Thom Theorem, which
describes the vanishing cycles of the sum of two functions of disjoint
variables.


Multipliers between two operator spaces

  In a recent survey paper we introduced one-sided multipliers between two
different operator spaces. Here we give some basic theory for these maps.


The Structure of the Multiverse

  The structure of the multiverse is determined by information flow.


Bell's theorem in the presence of classical communication

  I explain what kinds of correlation or even direct classical communication
between detectors invalidate Bell's theorem, and what kinds do not.


The Classification of Higher Order Modular Forms and their Cohomology

  We construct bases for the spaces of higher order modular forms of all orders
and weights. We also provide a cohomological interpretation of these forms.


Computing Humbert Surfaces

  We describe an algorithm which computes components of Humbert surfaces in
terms of Rosenhain invariants, based on Runge's method


Singular Points of Reducible Sextic Curves

  There are 106 individual types of singular points for reducible complex
sextic curves.


On Conway and Kochen's "Thou shalt not clone one bit!"

  A physicists' explanation of why thou shalt not clone one bit gives a
stronger version of Conway and Kochen's theorem.


On the absence of a measurement problem in quantum computer science

  I comment on GianCarlo Ghirardi's criticism of my claim that quantum
computation has no measurement problem.


A combinatorial survey of identities for the double factorial

  We survey combinatorial interpretations of some dozen identities for the
double factorial such as, for instance, (2n-2)!! + Sum_{k=2}^{n}
(2n-1)!!(2k-4)!!/(2k-1)!! = (2n-1)!!. Our methods are mostly bijective.


Can Random Coin Flips Speed Up a Computer?

  This expository essay introduces randomness and computation to a lay
audience.


Conformal blocks divisors on $\bar{M}_{0,n}$ from $sl_2$

  We study a family of semiample divisors on $\bar{M}_{0,n}$ defined using
conformal blocks and analyze their associated morphisms.


Adversary lower bounds in the Hamiltonian oracle model

  In this note, we show that quantum lower bounds obtained using the adversary
method hold in the Hamiltonian oracle model.


On "Law without Law"

  A quantum mechanism for logogenesis is conjectured.


Permutations avoiding 4321 and 3241 have an algebraic generating
  function

  We show that permutations avoiding both of the (classical) patterns 4321 and
3241 have the algebraic generating function conjectured by Vladimir Kruchinin.


The Petersson norm of the Jacobi theta function

  We compute the Petersson norm of the Jacobi theta function, by a simple
application of the Rankin-Selberg method and a little trick.


Combinatorial theorems relative to a random set

  We describe recent advances in the study of random analogues of combinatorial
theorems.


QBism in the New Scientist

  I correct a misrepresentation of QBism as antirealist.


A Note on Kernels, Images, and Cokernels in the Perverse Category

  We discuss the relationship between kernels, images and cokernels of
morphisms between perverse sheaves and induced maps on stalk cohomology.


A bijection for two sequences in OEIS

  We show that sequences A026737 and A111279 in The On-Line Encyclopedia of
Integer Sequences are the same by giving a bijection between two classes of
Grand Schroder paths.


Smoothness of Densities on Compact Lie Groups

  We give necessary and sufficient conditions for both square integrability and
smoothness for densities of a probability measure on a compact connected Lie
group.


Boundary F-maximization

  We discuss a variant of the F-theorem and F-maximization principles which
applies to (super)conformal boundary conditions of 4d (S)CFTs.


On Automorphisms of Biproducts

  We study certain subgroups of the full group of Hopf algebra automorphisms of
a biproduct. In the process interesting subgroups of certain permutation groups
come into play.


Accelerated rare event sampling

  A sampling procedure for the transition matrix Monte Carlo method is
introduced that generates the density of states function over a wide parameter
range with minimal coding effort.


Classification of Imprimitive Irreducible Finite Sugroups of O(7)

  This work gives a classification of imprimitive irreducible finite subgroups
of the orthogonal group O(7) plus the number of conjugate classes for each
group.


PDEs and hypercomplex analytic functions

  Hypercomplex numbers are unital algebras over the real numbers. We offer a
short demonstration of the practical value of hypercomplex analytic functions
in the field of partial differential equations.


Minimal surfaces and Schwarz lemma

  We prove a sharp Schwarz type inequality for the Weierstrass-Enneper
representation of the minimal surfaces.


A Short Proof of a Grothendieck-Lefschetz Theorem for Equivariant Picard
  Groups

  We give a short proof of a Grothendieck-Lefschetz Theorem for equivariant
Picard groups of nonsingular varieties with the action of an affine algebraic
group.


Monochromatic combinatorial lines of length three

  We show that there is a constant $c$ such that any colouring of the cube
$[3]^n$ in $c \log \log n$ colours contains a monochromatic combinatorial line.


Counting Polygon Triangulations is Hard

  We prove that it is $\#\mathsf{P}$-complete to count the triangulations of a
(non-simple) polygon.


Schwarz lemma for harmonic mappings between Riemann surfaces

  We prove a Schwarz type lemma for harmonic mappings between the unit and a
geodesic line in a Riemenn surface.


Discrete derived categories I: homomorphisms, autoequivalences and
  t-structures

  Discrete derived categories were studied initially by Vossieck and later by
Bobi\'nski, Gei\ss, Skowro\'nski. In this article, we describe the homomorphism
hammocks and autoequivalences on these categories. We classify silting objects
and bounded t-structures.


Classicality of the primordial perturbations

  We show that during inflation, a quantum fluctuation becomes classical at all
orders if it becomes classical at first order. Implications are discussed.


On the Progenitor of Supernova 1987A

  A previously unpublished ultralow-dispersion spectrum of Sanduleak -69 202,
the stellar progenitor of SN 1987A, is presented and the uncertain presupernova
evolution of Sanduleak -69 202 is discussed.


Advanced Techniques for Multiparton Loop Calculations: A Minireview

  We present an overview of techniques developed in recent years for the
efficient calculation of one-loop multiparton amplitudes, in particular those
relying on unitarity and collinear factorization.


