Over-Parameterized Deep Neural Networks Have No Strict Local Minima For
  Any Continuous Activations

  In this paper, we study the loss surface of the over-parameterized fully
connected deep neural networks. We prove that for any continuous activation
functions, the loss function has no bad strict local minimum, both in the
regular sense and in the sense of sets. This result holds for any convex and
continuous loss function, and the data samples are only required to be distinct
in at least one dimension. Furthermore, we show that bad local minima do exist
for a class of activation functions.


Multiple Vectors Propagation of Epidemics in Complex Networks

  This letter investigates the epidemic spreading in two-vectors propagation
network (TPN). We propose detailed theoretical analysis that allows us to
accurately calculate the epidemic threshold and outbreak size. It is found that
the epidemics can spread across the TPN even if two sub-single-vector
propagation networks (SPNs) of TPN are well below their respective epidemic
thresholds. Strong positive degree-degree correlation of nodes in TPN could
lead to a much lower epidemic threshold and a relatively smaller outbreak size.
However, the average similarity between the neighbors from different SPNs of
nodes has no effect on the epidemic threshold and outbreak size.


Complementary Normalized Compressive Ghost Imaging with Entangled
  Photons

  We demonstrate a compressive normalized ghost imaging system with entangled
photons employing complementary compressive imaging (CCI) technique. The
quantum ghost image reconstruction was achieved at only 19.53% sampling ratio
of raster scanning. With the special +1/-1 type sensing matrix and appropriate
optimal algorithm, the photon utilization efficiency and robustness of the
imaging system is enhanced significantly. Our results reveal the great
potential of CCI technique applied in quantum imaging and other quantum optics
field such as quantum charactering and quantum state tomography to use the
information loaded in each photon with high efficiency.


Prediction of Stable Cu-Li Binary Intermetallics From First-Principles
  Calculations: Stoichiometries, Crystal Structures, and Physical Properties

  Towards a resolution of the longstanding controversy regarding the existence
of Cu-Li intermetallic compounds, we extensively investigate the phase
stability of Cu-Li intermetallics with various possible stoichiometries at zero
temperature and pressure using a global structure searching method. It is found
that Cu-Li intermetallics can exist stably at atmospheric pressure, and three
stable intermetallics (Fmmm Cu1Li2, Fd m Cu2Li1 and P Cu7Li1,) are identified.
Electronic structure analysis reveals that although the three stable phases are
metallic, covalent Cu-Cu and ionic Cu-Li bonds are found in the three
structures. Moreover, the 3d states of copper atoms are mostly responsible for
bond formations in the Cu-Li intermetallics. For all the predicted Cu-Li
intermetallics, the effect of Cu concentration on structure, mechanical and
thermodynamic properties are calculated systematically.


Experimental Estimation of Average Fidelity of a Clifford Gate on a
  7-qubit Quantum Processor

  Quantum gates in experiment are inherently prone to errors that need to be
characterized before they can be corrected. Full characterization via quantum
process tomography is impractical and often unnecessary. For most practical
purposes, it is enough to estimate more general quantities such as the average
fidelity. Here we use a unitary 2-design and twirling protocol for efficiently
estimating the average fidelity of Clifford gates, to certify a 7-qubit
entangling gate in a nuclear magnetic resonance quantum processor. Compared
with more than $10^8$ experiments required by full process tomography, we
conducted 1656 experiments to satisfy a statistical confidence level of 99%.
The average fidelity of this Clifford gate in experiment is 55.1%, and rises to
87.5% if the infidelity due to decoherence is removed. The entire protocol of
certifying Clifford gates is efficient and scalable, and can easily be extended
to any general quantum information processor with minor modifications.


Quantum Spacetime on a Quantum Simulator

  We experimentally simulate the spin networks -- a fundamental description of
quantum spacetime at the Planck level. We achieve this by simulating quantum
tetrahedra and their interactions. The tensor product of these quantum
tetrahedra comprises spin networks. In this initial attempt to study quantum
spacetime by quantum information processing, on a four-qubit nuclear magnetic
resonance quantum simulator, we simulate the basic module -- comprising five
quantum tetrahedra -- of the interactions of quantum spacetime. By measuring
the geometric properties on the corresponding quantum tetrahedra and simulate
their interactions, our experiment serves as the basic module that represents
the Feynman diagram vertex in the spin-network formulation of quantum
spacetime.


LCANet: End-to-End Lipreading with Cascaded Attention-CTC

  Machine lipreading is a special type of automatic speech recognition (ASR)
which transcribes human speech by visually interpreting the movement of related
face regions including lips, face, and tongue. Recently, deep neural network
based lipreading methods show great potential and have exceeded the accuracy of
experienced human lipreaders in some benchmark datasets. However, lipreading is
still far from being solved, and existing methods tend to have high error rates
on the wild data. In this paper, we propose LCANet, an end-to-end deep neural
network based lipreading system. LCANet encodes input video frames using a
stacked 3D convolutional neural network (CNN), highway network and
bidirectional GRU network. The encoder effectively captures both short-term and
long-term spatio-temporal information. More importantly, LCANet incorporates a
cascaded attention-CTC decoder to generate output texts. By cascading CTC with
attention, it partially eliminates the defect of the conditional independence
assumption of CTC within the hidden neural layers, and this yields notably
performance improvement as well as faster convergence. The experimental results
show the proposed system achieves a 1.3% CER and 3.0% WER on the GRID corpus
database, leading to a 12.3% improvement compared to the state-of-the-art
methods.


On the existence of attractors

  On every compact 3-manifold, we build a non-empty open set $\cU$ of
$\Diff^1(M)$ such that, for every $r\geq 1$, every $C^r$-generic diffeomorphism
$f\in\cU\cap \Diff^r(M)$ has no topological attractors. On higher dimensional
manifolds, one may require that $f$ has neither topological attractors nor
topological repellers. Our examples have finitely many quasi attractors. For
flows, we may require that these quasi attractors contain singular points.
Finally we discuss alternative definitions of attractors which may be better
adapted to generic dynamics.


A secure and effective anonymous authentication scheme for roaming
  service in global mobility networks

  Recently, Mun et al. analyzed Wu et al.'s authentication scheme and proposed
a enhanced anonymous authentication scheme for roaming service in global
mobility networks. However, through careful analysis, we find that Mun et al.'s
scheme is vulnerable to impersonation attacks, off-line password guessing
attacks and insider attacks, and cannot provide user friendliness, user's
anonymity, proper mutual authentication and local verification. To remedy these
weaknesses, in this paper we propose a novel anonymous authentication scheme
for roaming service in global mobility networks. Security and performance
analyses show the proposed scheme is more suitable for the low-power and
resource-limited mobile devices, and is secure against various attacks and has
many excellent features.


Electric dipole sheets in BaTiO$_{3}$/BaZrO$_{3}$ superlattices

  We investigate two-dimensional electric dipole sheets in the superlattice
made of BaTiO$_{3}$ and BaZrO$_{3}$ using first-principles-based Monte-Carlo
simulations and density functional calculations. Electric dipole domains and
complex patterns are observed and the complex dipole structures with various
symmetries (e.g. Pma2, Cmcm and Pmc2_{1}) are further confirmed by density
functional calculations, which are found to be almost degenerate in energy with
the ferroelectric ground state of the Amm2 symmetry, therefore strongly
resembling magnetic sheets. More complex dipole patterns, including vortices
and anti-vortices, are also observed, which may constitute the intermediate
states that overcome the high energy barrier of different polarization
orientations previously predicted by Lebedev\onlinecite{Lebedev2013}. We also
show that such system possesses large electrostrictive effects that may be
technologically important.


Multiple routes transmitted epidemics on multiplex networks

  This letter investigates the multiple routes transmitted epidemic process on
multiplex networks. We propose detailed theoretical analysis that allows us to
accurately calculate the epidemic threshold and outbreak size. It is found that
the epidemic can spread across the multiplex network even if all the network
layers are well below their respective epidemic thresholds. Strong positive
degree-degree correlation of nodes in multiplex network could lead to a much
lower epidemic threshold and a relatively smaller outbreak size. However, the
average similarity of neighbors from different layers of nodes has no obvious
effect on the epidemic threshold and outbreak size.


Observing Fermion Pair Instability of the Sachdev-Ye-Kitaev Model on a
  Quantum Spin Simulator

  The Sachdev-Ye-Kitaev (SYK) model has become increasingly of great interest
in studying exotic non-fermi liquid states without quasiparticle excitations,
holography duality to Einstein gravity, and quantum chaos. However, the
unnatural form of its Hamiltonian, including its strong randomness and fully
nonlocal fermion interaction, makes its experimental investigation an
intractable challenge. A promising solution to overcome this challenge is
quantum simulation, whose role will be more pronounced particularly in the
future when more qubits can be handled. We have enough control to demonstrate a
first step towards quantum simulation of this system. We observed the fermion
paring instability of the non-Fermi liquid state and the chaotic-nonchaotic
transition at simulated temperatures, as was predicted by previous theory.
These results demonstrate the feasibility of experimentally simulating the SYK
model. It opens a new experimental avenue towards investigating the key
features of non-Fermi liquid states, as well as the quantum chaotic systems and
the AdS/CFT duality, thanks to the rich physics of the SYK model.


An efficient dynamic ID based remote user authentication scheme using
  self-certified public keys for multi-server environment

  Recently, Li et al. analyzed Lee et al.'s multi-server authentication scheme
and proposed a novel smart card and dynamic ID based remote user authentication
scheme for multi-server environments. They claimed that their scheme can resist
several kinds of attacks. However, through careful analysis, we find that Li et
al.'s scheme is vulnerable to stolen smart card and offline dictionary attack,
replay attack, impersonation attack and server spoofing attack. By analyzing
other similar schemes, we find that the certain type of dynamic ID based
multi-server authentication scheme in which only hash functions are used and no
registration center participates in the authentication and session key
agreement phase is hard to provide perfect efficient and secure authentication.
To compensate for these shortcomings, we improve the recently proposed Liao et
al.'s multi-server authentication scheme which is based on pairing and
self-certified public keys, and propose a novel dynamic ID based remote user
authentication scheme for multi-server environments. Liao et al.'s scheme is
found vulnerable to offline dictionary attack and denial of service attack, and
cannot provide user's anonymity and local password verification. However, our
proposed scheme overcomes the shortcomings of Liao et al.'s scheme. Security
and performance analyses show the proposed scheme is secure against various
attacks and has many excellent features.


Enhancing quantum control by bootstrapping a quantum processor of 12
  qubits

  Accurate and efficient control of quantum systems is one of the central
challenges for quantum information processing. Current state-of-the-art
experiments rarely go beyond 10 qubits and in most cases demonstrate only
limited control. Here we demonstrate control of a 12-qubit system, and show
that the system can be employed as a quantum processor to optimize its own
control sequence by using measurement-based feedback control (MQFC). The final
product is a control sequence for a complex 12-qubit task: preparation of a
12-coherent state. The control sequence is about 10% more accurate than the one
generated by the standard (classical) technique, showing that MQFC can correct
for unknown imperfections. Apart from demonstrating a high level of control
over a relatively large system, our results show that even at the 12-qubit
level, a quantum processor can be a useful lab instrument. As an extension of
our work, we propose a method for combining the MQFC technique with a twirling
protocol, to optimize the control sequence that produces a desired Clifford
gate.


Existence of nontrivial solutions for asymptotically linear periodic
  Schrödinger equations

  We study the Schr\"{o}dinger equation: \begin{equation} - \Delta
u+V(x)u=f(x,u) ,\qquad u\in H^{1}(\mathbb{R}^{N}),\nonumber \end{equation}
where $V$ is periodic and $f$ is periodic in the $x$-variables, 0 is in a gap
of the spectrum of the operator $-\Delta+V$ and $f$ is asymptotically linear as
$|u|\rightarrow+\infty.$ We prove that under some asymptotically linear
assumptions for $f$, this equation has a nontrivial solution. Our assumptions
for $f$ are different from the classical assumptions raised by G. B. Li and A.
Szulkin in


Quantum State and Process Tomography via Adaptive Measurements

  We investigate quantum state tomography (QST) for pure states and quantum
process tomography (QPT) for unitary channels via $adaptive$ measurements. For
a quantum system with a $d$-dimensional Hilbert space, we first propose an
adaptive protocol where only $2d-1$ measurement outcomes are used to accomplish
the QST for $all$ pure states. This idea is then extended to study QPT for
unitary channels, where an adaptive unitary process tomography (AUPT) protocol
of $d^2+d-1$ measurement outcomes is constructed for any unitary channel. We
experimentally implement the AUPT protocol in a 2-qubit nuclear magnetic
resonance system. We examine the performance of the AUPT protocol when applied
to Hadamard gate, $T$ gate ($\pi/8$ phase gate), and controlled-NOT gate,
respectively, as these gates form the universal gate set for quantum
information processing purpose. As a comparison, standard QPT is also
implemented for each gate. Our experimental results show that the AUPT protocol
that reconstructing unitary channels via adaptive measurements significantly
reduce the number of experiments required by standard QPT without considerable
loss of fidelity.


DeepRebirth: Accelerating Deep Neural Network Execution on Mobile
  Devices

  Deploying deep neural networks on mobile devices is a challenging task.
Current model compression methods such as matrix decomposition effectively
reduce the deployed model size, but still cannot satisfy real-time processing
requirement. This paper first discovers that the major obstacle is the
excessive execution time of non-tensor layers such as pooling and normalization
without tensor-like trainable parameters. This motivates us to design a novel
acceleration framework: DeepRebirth through "slimming" existing consecutive and
parallel non-tensor and tensor layers. The layer slimming is executed at
different substructures: (a) streamline slimming by merging the consecutive
non-tensor and tensor layer vertically; (b) branch slimming by merging
non-tensor and tensor branches horizontally. The proposed optimization
operations significantly accelerate the model execution and also greatly reduce
the run-time memory cost since the slimmed model architecture contains less
hidden layers. To maximally avoid accuracy loss, the parameters in new
generated layers are learned with layer-wise fine-tuning based on both
theoretical analysis and empirical verification. As observed in the experiment,
DeepRebirth achieves more than 3x speed-up and 2.5x run-time memory saving on
GoogLeNet with only 0.4% drop of top-5 accuracy on ImageNet. Furthermore, by
combining with other model compression techniques, DeepRebirth offers an
average of 65ms inference time on the CPU of Samsung Galaxy S6 with 86.5% top-5
accuracy, 14% faster than SqueezeNet which only has a top-5 accuracy of 80.5%.


Efficient Incremental Learning for Mobile Object Detection

  Object detection models shipped with camera-equipped mobile devices cannot
cover the objects of interest for every user. Therefore, the incremental
learning capability is a critical feature for a robust and personalized mobile
object detection system that many applications would rely on. In this paper, we
present an efficient yet practical system, IMOD, to incrementally train an
existing object detection model such that it can detect new object classes
without losing its capability to detect old classes. The key component of IMOD
is a novel incremental learning algorithm that trains end-to-end for one-stage
object detection deep models only using training data of new object classes.
Specifically, to avoid catastrophic forgetting, the algorithm distills three
types of knowledge from the old model to mimic the old model's behavior on
object classification, bounding box regression and feature extraction. In
addition, since the training data for the new classes may not be available, a
real-time dataset construction pipeline is designed to collect training images
on-the-fly and automatically label the images with both category and bounding
box annotations. We have implemented IMOD under both mobile-cloud and
mobile-only setups. Experiment results show that the proposed system can learn
to detect a new object class in just a few minutes, including both dataset
construction and model training. In comparison, traditional fine-tuning based
method may take a few hours for training, and in most cases would also need a
tedious and costly manual dataset labeling step.


600-T Magnetic Fields due to Cold Electron Flow in a simple Cu-Coil
  irradiated by High Power Laser pulses

  A new simple mechanism due to cold electron flow to produce strong magnetic
field is proposed. A 600-T strong magnetic field is generated in the free space
at the laser intensity of 5.7x10^15 Wcm^-2. Theoretical analysis indicates that
the magnetic field strength is proportional to laser intensity. Such a strong
magnetic field offers a new experimental test bed to study laser-plasma
physics, in particular, fast-ignition laser fusion research and laboratory
astrophysics.


A Separability-Entanglement Classifier via Machine Learning

  The problem of determining whether a given quantum state is entangled lies at
the heart of quantum information processing, which is known to be an NP-hard
problem in general. Despite the proposed many methods such as the positive
partial transpose (PPT) criterion and the k-symmetric extendibility criterion
to tackle this problem in practice, none of them enables a general, effective
solution to the problem even for small dimensions. Explicitly, separable states
form a high-dimensional convex set, which exhibits a vastly complicated
structure. In this work, we build a new separability-entanglement classifier
underpinned by machine learning techniques. Our method outperforms the existing
methods in generic cases in terms of both speed and accuracy, opening up the
avenues to explore quantum entanglement via the machine learning approach.


Correlation Analysis of a Large Sample of Narrow-Line Seyfert 1
  Galaxies: Linking Central Engine and Host Properties

  We present a statistical study of a large, homogeneously analyzed sample of
narrow-line Seyfert 1 (NLS1) galaxies, accompanied by a comparison sample of
broad-line Seyfert 1 (BLS1) galaxies. Optical emission-line and continuum
properties are subjected to correlation analyses, in order to identify the main
drivers of active galactic nuclei (AGN) correlation space, and of NLS1 galaxies
in particular. For the first time, we have established the density of the
narrow-line region as a key parameter in Eigenvector 1 space, as important as
the Eddington ratio L/Ledd. This is important because it links the properties
of the central engine with the properties of the host galaxy; i.e., the
interstellar medium (ISM). We also confirm previously found correlations
involving the line width of Hbeta, and the strength of the FeII and [OIII]5007
emission lines, and we confirm the important role played by L/Ledd in driving
the properties of NLS1 galaxies. A spatial correlation analysis shows that
large-scale environments of the BLS1 and NLS1 galaxies of our sample are
similar. If mergers are rare in our sample, accretion-driven winds on the one
hand, or bar-driven inflows on the other hand, may account for the strong
dependence of Eigenvector 1 on ISM density.


The Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Benchmark: Object Detection and Tracking

  With the advantage of high mobility, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) are used
to fuel numerous important applications in computer vision, delivering more
efficiency and convenience than surveillance cameras with fixed camera angle,
scale and view. However, very limited UAV datasets are proposed, and they focus
only on a specific task such as visual tracking or object detection in
relatively constrained scenarios. Consequently, it is of great importance to
develop an unconstrained UAV benchmark to boost related researches. In this
paper, we construct a new UAV benchmark focusing on complex scenarios with new
level challenges. Selected from 10 hours raw videos, about 80,000
representative frames are fully annotated with bounding boxes as well as up to
14 kinds of attributes (e.g., weather condition, flying altitude, camera view,
vehicle category, and occlusion) for three fundamental computer vision tasks:
object detection, single object tracking, and multiple object tracking. Then, a
detailed quantitative study is performed using most recent state-of-the-art
algorithms for each task. Experimental results show that the current
state-of-the-art methods perform relative worse on our dataset, due to the new
challenges appeared in UAV based real scenes, e.g., high density, small object,
and camera motion. To our knowledge, our work is the first time to explore such
issues in unconstrained scenes comprehensively.


Sublattice symmetry breaking and Kondo-effect enhancement in strained
  graphene

  Kondo physics in doped monolayer graphene is predicted to exhibit unusual
features due to the linear vanishing of the pristine material's density of
states at the Dirac point. Despite several attempts, conclusive experimental
observation of the phenomenon remains elusive. One likely obstacle to
identification is a very small Kondo temperature scale $T_K$ in situations
where the chemical potential lies near the Dirac point. We propose tailored
mechanical deformations of monolayer graphene as a means of revealing unique
fingerprints of the Kondo effect. Inhomogeneous strains are known to produce
specific alternating changes in the local density of states (LDOS) away from
the Dirac point that signal sublattice symmetry breaking effects. Small LDOS
changes can be amplified in an exponential increase or decrease of $T_K$ for
magnetic impurities attached at different locations. We illustrate this
behavior in two deformation geometries: a circular 'bubble' and a long fold,
both described by Gaussian displacement profiles. We calculate the LDOS changes
for modest strains and analyze the relevant Anderson impurity model describing
a magnetic atom adsorbed in either a 'top-site' or a 'hollow-site'
configuration. Numerical renormalization-group solutions of the impurity model
suggest that higher expected $T_K$ values, combined with distinctive spatial
patterns under variation of the point of graphene attachment, make the top-site
configuration the more promising for experimental observation of signatures of
the Kondo effect. The strong strain sensitivity of $T_K$ may lift top-site
Kondo physics into the range experimentally accessible using local probes such
as scanning tunneling microscopy.


Realistic Adversarial Examples in 3D Meshes

  Highly expressive models such as deep neural networks (DNNs) have been widely
applied to various applications and achieved increasing success. However,
recent studies show that such machine learning models appear to be vulnerable
against adversarial examples. So far adversarial examples have been heavily
explored for 2D images, while few works have conducted to understand
vulnerabilities of 3D objects which exist in real world, where 3D objects are
projected to 2D domains by photo taking for different learning (recognition)
tasks. In this paper, we consider adversarial behaviors in practical scenarios
by manipulating the shape and texture of a given 3D mesh representation of an
object. Our goal is to project the optimized "adversarial meshes" to 2D with a
photorealistic renderer, and still able to mislead different machine learning
models. Extensive experiments show that by generating unnoticeable 3D
adversarial perturbation on shape or texture for a 3D mesh, the corresponding
projected 2D instance can either lead classifiers to misclassify the victim
object as an arbitrary malicious target, or hide any target object within the
scene from object detectors. We conduct human studies to show that our
optimized adversarial 3D perturbation is highly unnoticeable for human vision
systems. In addition to the subtle perturbation for a given 3D mesh, we also
propose to synthesize a realistic 3D mesh and put in a scene mimicking similar
rendering conditions and therefore attack different machine learning models.
In-depth analysis of transferability among various 3D renderers and vulnerable
regions of meshes are provided to help better understand adversarial behaviors
in real-world.


Data Priming Network for Automatic Check-Out

  Automatic Check-Out (ACO) receives increased interests in recent years. An
important component of the ACO system is the visual item counting, which
recognize the categories and counts of the items chosen by the customers.
However, the training of such a system is challenged by the domain adaptation
problem, in which the training data are images from isolated items while the
testing images are for collections of items. Existing methods solve this
problem with data augmentation using synthesized images, but the image
synthesis leads to unreal images that affect the training process. In this
paper, we propose a new data priming method to solve the domain adaptation
problem. Specifically, we first use pre-augmentation data priming, in which we
remove distracting background from the training images and select images with
realistic view angles by the pose pruning method. In the post-augmentation
step, we train a data priming network using detection and counting
collaborative learning, and select more reliable images from testing data to
train the final visual item tallying network. Experiments on the large scale
Retail Product Checkout (RPC) dataset demonstrate the superiority of the
proposed method, i.e., we achieve 80.51% checkout accuracy compared with 56.68%
of the baseline methods.


Measurements of Charge Transfer Efficiency in a Proton-irradiated Swept
  Charge Device

  Charge Coupled Devices (CCDs) have been successfully used in several low
energy X-ray astronomical satellite over the past two decades. Their high
energy resolution and high spatial resolution make them an perfect tool for low
energy astronomy, such as formation of galaxy clusters and environment of black
holes. The Low Energy X-ray Telescope (LE) group is developing Swept Charge
Device (SCD) for the Hard X-ray Modulation Telescope (HXMT) satellite. SCD is a
special low energy X-ray CCD, which could be read out a thousand times faster
than traditional CCDs, simultaneously keeping excellent energy resolution. A
test method for measuring the charge transfer efficiency (CTE) of a prototype
SCD has been set up. Studies of the charge transfer inefficiency (CTI) have
been performed at a temperature range of operation, with a proton-irradiated
SCD.


Efficient laser noise reduction by locking to an actively stabilized
  fiber interferometer with 10 km arm imbalance

  We report a laser noise reduction method by locking it to an actively
stabilized fiber-based Mach Zehnder interferometer with 10 km optical fiber to
achieve large arm imbalance. An acousto optic modulator is used for
interferometer stabilization and heterodyne detection. The out-of-loop
frequency noise is reduced by more than 90 dB for Fourier frequency at 1 Hz.
This structure presents an efficient laser noise reduction method both at high
Fourier frequency and low Fourier frequency. The signal of stabilized laser is
transferred via a 10 km fiber link with a fractional frequency stability of
1.12 times 10-16 at 1 s. Compared with the fractional frequency stability of
that when the interferometer is not stabilized, more than one order of
magnitude is improved.


Nuclear Fusion in Laser-Driven Counter-Streaming Collisionless Plasmas

  Nuclear fusion reactions are the most important processes in nature to power
stars and produce new elements, and lie at the center of the understanding of
nucleosynthesis in the universe. It is critically important to study the
reactions in full plasma environments that are close to true astrophysical
conditions. By using laser-driven counter-streaming collisionless plasmas, we
studied the fusion D$+$D$\rightarrow n +^3$He in a Gamow-like window around 27
keV. The results show that astrophysical nuclear reaction yield can be
modulated significantly by the self-generated electromagnetic fields and the
collective motion of the plasma. This plasma-version mini-collider may provide
a novel tool for studies of astrophysics-interested nuclear reactions in plasma
with tunable energies in earth-based laboratories.


Evaluation at the Remote Site for Ultra-stable Radio Frequency
  Dissemination via Fiber Links

  We demonstrate a method which can directly evaluate the radio frequency
transfer quality via fiber links at the remote site. Coherent signals are first
transferred to the same remote site via two stabilized fiber links. The two
signals at the remote site are compared with each other. The relative phase
difference can represent transfer stability loss. This evaluation method at the
remote site has been compared with the traditional one with which the signal is
evaluated at the local site. The two results match perfectly. It indicates that
the method is available to evaluate the transfer performance of radio frequency
(RF) dissemination in such applications as antenna array systems.


Optimal experiment design for quantum state tomography

  Quantum state tomography is an indispensable but costly part of many quantum
experiments. Typically, it requires measurements to be carried in a number of
different settings on a fixed experimental setup. The collected data is often
informationally overcomplete, with the amount of information redundancy
depending on the particular set of measurement settings chosen. This raises a
question about how should one optimally take data so that the number of
measurement settings necessary can be reduced. Here, we cast this problem in
terms of integer programming. For a given experimental setup, standard integer
programming algorithms allow us to find the minimum set of readout operations
that can realize a target tomographic task. We apply the method to certain
basic and practical state tomographic problems in nuclear magnetic resonance
experimental systems. The results show that, considerably less readout
operations can be found using our technique than it was by using the previous
greedy search strategy. Therefore, our method could be helpful for simplifying
measurement schemes so as to minimize the experimental effort.


Chiral Quantum Walks

  Given its importance to many other areas of physics, from condensed matter
physics to thermodynamics, time-reversal symmetry has had relatively little
influence on quantum information science. Here we develop a network-based
picture of time-reversal theory, classifying Hamiltonians and quantum circuits
as time-symmetric or not in terms of the elements and geometries of their
underlying networks. Many of the typical circuits of quantum information
science are found to exhibit time-asymmetry. Moreover, we show that
time-asymmetry in circuits can be controlled using local gates only, and can
simulate time-asymmetry in Hamiltonian evolution. We experimentally implement a
fundamental example in which controlled time-reversal asymmetry in a
palindromic quantum circuit leads to near-perfect transport. Our results pave
the way for using time-symmetry breaking to control coherent transport, and
imply that time-asymmetry represents an omnipresent yet poorly understood
effect in quantum information science.


Approximation of Reachable Set for Coherently Controlled Open Quantum
  Systems: Application to Quantum State Engineering

  Precisely characterizing and controlling realistic open quantum systems is
one of the most challenging and exciting frontiers in quantum sciences and
technologies. In this Letter, we present methods of approximately computing
reachable sets for coherently controlled dissipative systems, which is very
useful for assessing control performances. We apply this to a two-qubit nuclear
magnetic resonance spin system and implement some tasks of quantum control in
open systems at a near optimal performance in view of purity: e.g., increasing
polarization and preparing pseudo-pure states. Our work shows interesting and
promising applications of environment-assisted quantum dynamics.


Experimental realization of post-selected weak measurements on an NMR
  quantum processor

  The ability to post-select the outcomes of an experiment is a useful
theoretical concept and experimental tool. In the context of weak measurements
post-selection can lead to surprising results such as complex weak values
outside the range of eigenvalues. Usually post-selection is realized by a
projective measurement, which is hard to implement in ensemble systems such as
NMR. We demonstrate the first experiment of a weak measurement with
post-selection on an NMR quantum information processor. Our setup is used for
measuring complex weak values and weak values outside the range of eigenvalues.
The scheme for overcoming the problem of post-selection in an ensemble quantum
computer is general and can be applied to any circuit-based implementation.
This experiment paves the way for studying and exploiting post-selection and
weak measurements in systems where projective measurements are hard to realize
experimentally.


Waterproofed Photomultiplier Tube Assemblies for the Daya Bay Reactor
  Neutrino Experiment

  In the Daya Bay Reactor Neutrino Experiment 960 20-cm-diameter waterproof
photomultiplier tubes are used to instrument three water pools as Cherenkov
detectors for detecting cosmic-ray muons. Of these 960 photomultiplier tubes,
341 are recycled from the MACRO experiment. A systematic program was undertaken
to refurbish them as waterproof assemblies. In the context of passing the water
leakage check, a success rate better than 97% was achieved. Details of the
design, fabrication, testing, operation, and performance of these waterproofed
photomultiplier-tube assemblies are presented.


Quantum-inspired Complex Word Embedding

  A challenging task for word embeddings is to capture the emergent meaning or
polarity of a combination of individual words. For example, existing approaches
in word embeddings will assign high probabilities to the words "Penguin" and
"Fly" if they frequently co-occur, but it fails to capture the fact that they
occur in an opposite sense - Penguins do not fly. We hypothesize that humans do
not associate a single polarity or sentiment to each word. The word contributes
to the overall polarity of a combination of words depending upon which other
words it is combined with. This is analogous to the behavior of microscopic
particles which exist in all possible states at the same time and interfere
with each other to give rise to new states depending upon their relative
phases. We make use of the Hilbert Space representation of such particles in
Quantum Mechanics where we subscribe a relative phase to each word, which is a
complex number, and investigate two such quantum inspired models to derive the
meaning of a combination of words. The proposed models achieve better
performances than state-of-the-art non-quantum models on the binary sentence
classification task.


Randomization Inference for Peer Effects

  Many previous causal inference studies require no interference, that is, the
potential outcomes of a unit do not depend on the treatments of other units.
However, this no-interference assumption becomes unreasonable when a unit
interacts with other units in the same group or cluster. In a motivating
application, a university in China admits students through two channels: the
college entrance exam (also known as Gaokao) and recommendation (often based on
Olympiads in various subjects). The university randomly assigns students to
dorms, each of which hosts four students. Students within the same dorm live
together and have extensive interactions. Therefore, it is likely that peer
effects exist and the no-interference assumption does not hold. It is important
to understand peer effects, because they give useful guidance for future
roommate assignment to improve the performance of students. We define peer
effects using potential outcomes. We then propose a randomization-based
inference framework to study peer effects with arbitrary numbers of peers and
peer types. Our inferential procedure does not assume any parametric model on
the outcome distribution. Our analysis gives useful practical guidance for
policy makers of the university in China.


Experimental Implementation of Efficient Quantum Pseudorandomness on a
  12-spin System

  Quantum pseudorandomness, also known as unitary designs, comprise a powerful
resource for quantum computation and quantum engineering. While it is known in
theory that pseudorandom unitary operators can be constructed efficiently,
realizing these objects in realistic physical systems can be a challenging
task. In this work, we study quantum pseudorandomness generation on a 12-spin
nuclear magnetic resonance system. The experimental process is based on the
recently proposed design Hamiltonian approach, which has the merit of being
significantly more efficient than previous protocols. By applying random
refocusing sequences to the experimental system we create a design Hamiltonian
the dynamics of which quickly forms unitary designs. We then use
multiple-quantum techniques to measure spreading of quantum coherences over
system's degrees of freedom, and so to probe the growth of quantum
pseudorandomness. The measured multiple-quantum coherence spectra indicate that
substantial quantum pseudorandomness have been achieved.


Detecting scrambling via statistical correlations between randomized
  measurements on an NMR quantum simulator

  Out-of-time-order correlator (OTOC), been suggested as a measure of quantum
information scrambling in quantum many-body systems, has received enormous
attention recently. The experimental measurement of OTOC is quite challenging.
The existing theoretical protocols consist in implementing time-reversal
operations or using ancillary quantum systems, therefore only a few experiments
have been reported. Recently, a new protocol to detect OTOC using statistical
correlations between randomized measurements was put forward. In this work, we
detect the OTOCs of a kicked-Ising model using this new measurement method on a
4-qubit nuclear magnetic resonance quantum simulator. In experiment, we use
random Hamiltonian evolutions to generate the random operations that are
required by the randomized OTOC detection protocol. Our experimental results
are in good agreement with the theoretical predictions, thus confirming the
feasibility of the protocols. Therefore, our work represents a step in
exploring realistic quantum chaotic dynamics in complicated quantum systems.


NMRCloudQ: A Quantum Cloud Experience on a Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
  Quantum Computer

  As of today, no one can tell when a universal quantum computer with thousands
of logical quantum bits (qubits) will be built. At present, most quantum
computer prototypes involve less than ten individually controllable qubits, and
only exist in laboratories for the sake of either the great costs of devices or
professional maintenance requirements. Moreover, scientists believe that
quantum computers will never replace our daily, every-minute use of classical
computers, but would rather serve as a substantial addition to the classical
ones when tackling some particular problems. Due to the above two reasons,
cloud-based quantum computing is anticipated to be the most useful and
reachable form for public users to experience with the power of quantum. As
initial attempts, IBM Q has launched influential cloud services on a
superconducting quantum processor in 2016, but no other platforms has followed
up yet. Here, we report our new cloud quantum computing service -- NMRCloudQ
(http://nmrcloudq.com/zh-hans/), where nuclear magnetic resonance, one of the
pioneer platforms with mature techniques in experimental quantum computing,
plays as the role of implementing computing tasks. Our service provides a
comprehensive software environment preconfigured with a list of quantum
information processing packages, and aims to be freely accessible to either
amateurs that look forward to keeping pace with this quantum era or
professionals that are interested in carrying out real quantum computing
experiments in person. In our current version, four qubits are already usable
with in average 1.26% single-qubit gate error rate and 1.77% two-qubit
controlled-NOT gate error rate via randomized benchmaking tests. Improved
control precisions as well as a new seven-qubit processor are also in
preparation and will be available later.


Multi-parameter estimating photometric redshifts with artificial neural
  networks

  We calculate photometric redshifts from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data
Release 2 Galaxy Sample using artificial neural networks (ANNs). Different
input patterns based on various parameters (e.g. magnitude, color index, flux
information) are explored and their performances for redshift prediction are
compared. For ANN technique, any parameter may be easily incorporated as input,
but our results indicate that using dereddening magnitude produces photometric
redshift accuracies often better than the Petrosian magnitude or model
magnitude. Similarly, the model magnitude is also superior to Petrosian
magnitude. In addition, ANNs also show better performance when the more
effective parameters increase in the training set. Finally, the method is
tested on a sample of 79, 346 galaxies from the SDSS DR2. When using 19
parameters based on the dereddening magnitude, the rms error in redshift
estimation is sigma(z)=0.020184. The ANN is highly competitive tool when
compared with traditional template-fitting methods where a large and
representative training set is available.


Measurement of X-ray Photon Energy and Arrival Time Using a Silicon
  Drift Detector

  Detecting the X-ray radialization of pulsars and obtaining the photons' time
of arrival are the foundation steps in autonomous navigation via X-ray pulsar
measurement. The precision of a pulse' s time of arrival is mainly decided by
the precision of photon arrival time. In this work, a silicon drift detector is
used to measure photon energy and arrival time. The measurement system consists
of a signal detector, a processing unit, a signal acquisition unit, and a data
receiving unit. This system acquires the energy resolution and arrival time
information of photons. In particular, when background noise with different
energies disturbs epoch folding, the system can acquire a high signal-to-noise
ratio pulse profile. Ground test results show that this system can be applied
in autonomous navigation using X-ray pulsar measurement as payload.


Sensitivity of the CUORE detector to $14.4$ keV solar axions emitted by
  the M1 nuclear transition of$~^{57}$Fe

  In this paper we present a calculation of the sensitivity of the CUORE
detector to the monoenergetic $14.4$ keV solar axions emitted by the M1 nuclear
transition of$~^{57}$Fe in the Sun and detected by inverse coherent
Bragg-Primakoff conversion in single-crystal $TeO_2$ bolometers. The expected
counting rate is calculated using density functional theory for the electron
charge density of $TeO_2$ and realistic background and energy resolution of
CUORE. Monte Carlo simulations for $5$ y $\times$ $741$ kg=$3705-$kg$\cdot$y of
exposure are analyzed using time correlation of individual events with the
theoretical time-dependent counting rate. We find an expected model-independent
limit on the product of the axion-photon coupling and the axion-nucleon
coupling $g_{a\gamma\gamma}g_{aN}^{\text{eff}}<1.105\times 10^{-16}$ /GeV for
axion masses less than 500 eV with $95\%$ confidence level.


Electrostriction coefficient of ferroelectric materials from ab initio
  computation

  Electrostriction is an important material property that characterizes how
strain changes with the development of polarization inside a material. We show
that \textit{ab initio }techniques developed in recent years can be exploited
to compute and understand electrostriction of ferroelectric materials. Here,
electrostriction coefficients of ferroelectric BaTiO$_{3}$, PbTiO$_{3}$, as
well as dielectric BaZrO$_{3}$, are obtained and analyzed. Possible causes of
the difference between experimental and numerical results are discussed. We
also identified that relative displacements between certain ions at a given
polarization could be a good indicator of a material's electrostriction
property.


Solving Quantum Ground-State Problems with Nuclear Magnetic Resonance

  Quantum ground-state problems are computationally hard problems; for general
many-body Hamiltonians, there is no classical or quantum algorithm known to be
able to solve them efficiently. Nevertheless, if a trial wavefunction
approximating the ground state is available, as often happens for many problems
in physics and chemistry, a quantum computer could employ this trial
wavefunction to project the ground state by means of the phase estimation
algorithm (PEA). We performed an experimental realization of this idea by
implementing a variational-wavefunction approach to solve the ground-state
problem of the Heisenberg spin model with an NMR quantum simulator. Our
iterative phase estimation procedure yields a high accuracy for the
eigenenergies (to the 10^-5 decimal digit). The ground-state fidelity was
distilled to be more than 80%, and the singlet-to-triplet switching near the
critical field is reliably captured. This result shows that quantum simulators
can better leverage classical trial wavefunctions than classical computers.


Theoretical Estimate of the Sensitivity of the CUORE Detector to Solar
  Axions

  In this paper we calculate the potential sensitivity of the CUORE detector to
axions produced in the Sun through the Primakoff process and detected by the
inverse coherent Bragg-Primakoff process. The conversion rate is calculated
using density functional theory for the electron density and realistic
expectations for the energy resolution and background of CUORE. Monte Carlo
calculations for $5~$y$\times741~$kg=$3705~$kg y of exposure are analyzed using
time correlation of individual events with the theoretical time-dependent
counting rate and lead to an expected limit on the axion-photon coupling
$g_{a\gamma\gamma}<3.83\times 10^{-10}~GeV^{-1}$ for axion masses less than
$100$ eV.


Further Theoretical Study of Distribution Separation Method for
  Information Retrieval

  Recently, a Distribution Separation Method (DSM) is proposed for relevant
feedback in information retrieval, which aims to approximate the true relevance
distribution by separating a seed irrelevance distribution from the mixture
one. While DSM achieved a promising empirical performance, theoretical analysis
of DSM is still need further study and comparison with other relative retrieval
model. In this article, we first generalize DSM's theoretical property, by
proving that its minimum correlation assumption is equivalent to the maximum
(original and symmetrized) KL-Divergence assumption. Second, we also
analytically show that the EM algorithm in a well-known Mixture Model is
essentially a distribution separation process and can be simplified using the
linear separation algorithm in DSM. Some empirical results are also presented
to support our theoretical analysis.


Insight into dielectric response of ferroelectric relaxors by
  statistical modeling

  Ferroelectric relaxors are complex materials with distinct properties. The
understanding of their dielectric susceptibility, which strongly depends on
both temperature and probing frequency, have interested researchers for many
years. Here we report a macroscopic and phenomenological approach based on
statistical modeling to investigate and better understand how the dielectric
response of a relaxor depends on temperature. Employing the Maxwell-Boltzmann
distribution and considering temperature dependent dipolar orientational
polarizability, we propose a minimum statistical model and specific equations
to understand and fit numerical and experimental dielectric responses versus
temperature. We show that the proposed formula can successfully fit the
dielectric response of typical relaxors, including Ba(Zr,Ti)O$_{3}$,
Pb(Zn$_{1/3}$Nb$_{2/3}$)$_{0.87}$Ti$_{0.13}$O$_{3}$, and
Pb(Mg$_{1/3}$Nb$_{2/3}$)O$_{3}$-0.05Pb(Zr$_{0.53}$Ti$_{0.47}$)O$_{3}$, which
demonstrates the general applicability of this approach.


Boundary-sensitive Network for Portrait Segmentation

  Compared to the general semantic segmentation problem, portrait segmentation
has higher precision requirement on boundary area. However, this problem has
not been well studied in previous works. In this paper, we propose a
boundary-sensitive deep neural network (BSN) for portrait segmentation. BSN
introduces three novel techniques. First, an individual boundary-sensitive
kernel is proposed by dilating the contour line and assigning the boundary
pixels with multi-class labels. Second, a global boundary-sensitive kernel is
employed as a position sensitive prior to further constrain the overall shape
of the segmentation map. Third, we train a boundary-sensitive attribute
classifier jointly with the segmentation network to reinforce the network with
semantic boundary shape information. We have evaluated BSN on the current
largest public portrait segmentation dataset, i.e, the PFCN dataset, as well as
the portrait images collected from other three popular image segmentation
datasets: COCO, COCO-Stuff, and PASCAL VOC. Our method achieves the superior
quantitative and qualitative performance over state-of-the-arts on all the
datasets, especially on the boundary area.


Large intrinsic anomalous Hall effect in half-metallic ferromagnet
  Co3Sn2S2 with magnetic Weyl fermions

  The origin of anomalous Hall effect (AHE) in magnetic materials is one of the
most intriguing aspect in condensed matter physics and has been controversial
for a long time. Recent studies indicate that the intrinsic AHE is closely
related to the Berry curvature of occupied electronic states. In a magnetic
Weyl semimetal with broken time-reversal symmetry, there are significant
contributions on Berry curvature around Weyl nodes, which would lead to a large
intrinsic AHE. Here, we report the large intrinsic AHE in the half-metallic
ferromagnet Co3Sn2S2 single crystal. By systematically mapping out the
electronic structure of Co3Sn2S2 theoretically and experimentally, the large
intrinsic AHE should originate from the Weyl fermions near the Fermi energy.
Furthermore, the intrinsic anomalous Hall conductivity depends linearly on the
magnetization and this can be attributed to the sharp decrease of magnetization
and the change of topological characteristics.


Modeling Multidimensional User Relevance in IR using Vector Spaces

  It has been shown that relevance judgment of documents is influenced by
multiple factors beyond topicality. Some multidimensional user relevance models
(MURM) proposed in literature have investigated the impact of different
dimensions of relevance on user judgment. Our hypothesis is that a user might
give more importance to certain relevance dimensions in a session which might
change dynamically as the session progresses. This motivates the need to
capture the weights of different relevance dimensions using feedback and build
a model to rank documents for subsequent queries according to these weights. We
propose a geometric model inspired by the mathematical framework of Quantum
theory to capture the user's importance given to each dimension of relevance
and test our hypothesis on data from a web search engine and TREC Session
track.


