Interactive Sound Rendering on Mobile Devices using Ray-Parameterized
  Reverberation Filters

  We present a new sound rendering pipeline that is able to generate plausible
sound propagation effects for interactive dynamic scenes. Our approach combines
ray-tracing-based sound propagation with reverberation filters using robust
automatic reverb parameter estimation that is driven by impulse responses
computed at a low sampling rate.We propose a unified spherical harmonic
representation of directional sound in both the propagation and auralization
modules and use this formulation to perform a constant number of convolution
operations for any number of sound sources while rendering spatial audio. In
comparison to previous geometric acoustic methods, we achieve a speedup of over
an order of magnitude while delivering similar audio to high-quality
convolution rendering algorithms. As a result, our approach is the first
capable of rendering plausible dynamic sound propagation effects on commodity
smartphones.


Dynamic Group Behaviors for Interactive Crowd Simulation

  We present a new algorithm to simulate dynamic group behaviors for
interactive multi-agent crowd simulation. Our approach is general and makes no
assumption about the environment, shape, or size of the groups. We use the
least effort principle to perform coherent group navigation and present
efficient inter-group and intra-group maintenance techniques. We extend the
reciprocal collision avoidance scheme to perform agent-group and group-group
collision avoidance that can generate collision-free as well as coherent and
trajectories. The additional overhead of dynamic group simulation is relatively
small. We highlight its interactive performance on complex scenarios with
hundreds of agents and compare the trajectory behaviors with real-world videos.


Fast and Bounded Probabilistic Collision Detection in Dynamic
  Environments for High-DOF Trajectory Planning

  We present a novel approach to perform probabilistic collision detection
between a high-DOF robot and high-DOF obstacles in dynamic, uncertain
environments. In dynamic environments with a high-DOF robot and moving
obstacles, our approach efficiently computes accurate collision probability
between the robot and obstacles with upper error bounds. Furthermore, we
describe a prediction algorithm for future obstacle position and motion that
accounts for both spatial and temporal uncertainties. We present a trajectory
optimization algorithm for high-DOF robots in dynamic, uncertain environments
based on probabilistic collision detection. We highlight motion planning
performance in challenging scenarios with robot arms operating in environments
with dynamically moving human obstacles.


Feedback Motion Planning for Liquid Transfer using Supervised Learning

  We present a novel motion planning algorithm for transferring a liquid body
from a source to a target container. Our approach uses a receding-horizon
optimization strategy that takes into account fluid constraints and avoids
collisions. In order to efficiently handle the high-dimensional configuration
space of a liquid body, we use system identification to learn its dynamics
characteristics using a neural network. We generate the training dataset using
stochastic optimization in a transfer-problem-specific search space. The
runtime feedback motion planner is used for real-time planning and we observe
high success rate in our simulated 2D and 3D fluid transfer benchmarks.


Efficient Probabilistic Collision Detection for Non-Convex Shapes

  We present new algorithms to perform fast probabilistic collision queries
between convex as well as non-convex objects. Our approach is applicable to
general shapes, where one or more objects are represented using Gaussian
probability distributions. We present a fast new algorithm for a pair of convex
objects, and extend the approach to non-convex models using hierarchical
representations. We highlight the performance of our algorithms with various
convex and non-convex shapes on complex synthetic benchmarks and trajectory
planning benchmarks for a 7-DOF Fetch robot arm.


SocioSense: Robot Navigation Amongst Pedestrians with Social and
  Psychological Constraints

  We present a real-time algorithm, SocioSense, for socially-aware navigation
of a robot amongst pedestrians. Our approach computes time-varying behaviors of
each pedestrian using Bayesian learning and Personality Trait theory. These
psychological characteristics are used for long-term path prediction and
generating proximic characteristics for each pedestrian. We combine these
psychological constraints with social constraints to perform human-aware robot
navigation in low- to medium-density crowds. The estimation of time-varying
behaviors and pedestrian personalities can improve the performance of long-term
path prediction by 21%, as compared to prior interactive path prediction
algorithms. We also demonstrate the benefits of our socially-aware navigation
in simulated environments with tens of pedestrians.


Identifying Driver Behaviors using Trajectory Features for Vehicle
  Navigation

  We present a novel approach to automatically identify driver behaviors from
vehicle trajectories and use them for safe navigation of autonomous vehicles.
We propose a novel set of features that can be easily extracted from car
trajectories. We derive a data-driven mapping between these features and six
driver behaviors using an elaborate web-based user study. We also compute a
summarized score indicating a level of awareness that is needed while driving
next to other vehicles. We also incorporate our algorithm into a vehicle
navigation simulation system and demonstrate its benefits in terms of safer
real-time navigation, while driving next to aggressive or dangerous drivers.


CrowdMove: Autonomous Mapless Navigation in Crowded Scenarios

  Navigation is an essential capability for mobile robots. In this paper, we
propose a generalized yet effective 3M (i.e., multi-robot, multi-scenario, and
multi-stage) training framework. We optimize a mapless navigation policy with a
robust policy gradient algorithm. Our method enables different types of mobile
platforms to navigate safely in complex and highly dynamic environments, such
as pedestrian crowds. To demonstrate the superiority of our method, we test our
methods with four kinds of mobile platforms in four scenarios. Videos are
available at https://sites.google.com/view/crowdmove.


Tracing Analytic Ray Curves for Light and Sound Propagation in
  Non-linear Media

  The physical world consists of spatially varying media, such as the
atmosphere and the ocean, in which light and sound propagates along non-linear
trajectories. This presents a challenge to existing ray-tracing based methods,
which are widely adopted to simulate propagation due to their efficiency and
flexibility, but assume linear rays. We present a novel algorithm that traces
analytic ray curves computed from local media gradients, and utilizes the
closed-form solutions of both the intersections of the ray curves with planar
surfaces, and the travel distance. By constructing an adaptive unstructured
mesh, our algorithm is able to model general media profiles that vary in three
dimensions with complex boundaries consisting of terrains and other scene
objects such as buildings. We trace the analytic ray curves using the adaptive
unstructured mesh, which considerably improves the efficiency over prior
methods. We highlight the algorithm's application on simulation of sound and
visual propagation in outdoor scenes.


Real-time Crowd Tracking using Parameter Optimized Mixture of Motion
  Models

  We present a novel, real-time algorithm to track the trajectory of each
pedestrian in moderately dense crowded scenes. Our formulation is based on an
adaptive particle-filtering scheme that uses a combination of various
multi-agent heterogeneous pedestrian simulation models. We automatically
compute the optimal parameters for each of these different models based on
prior tracked data and use the best model as motion prior for our
particle-filter based tracking algorithm. We also use our "mixture of motion
models" for adaptive particle selection and accelerate the performance of the
online tracking algorithm. The motion model parameter estimation is formulated
as an optimization problem, and we use an approach that solves this
combinatorial optimization problem in a model independent manner and hence
scalable to any multi-agent pedestrian motion model. We evaluate the
performance of our approach on different crowd video datasets and highlight the
improvement in accuracy over homogeneous motion models and a baseline
mean-shift based tracker. In practice, our formulation can compute trajectories
of tens of pedestrians on a multi-core desktop CPU in in real time and offer
higher accuracy as compared to prior real time pedestrian tracking algorithms.


LCrowdV: Generating Labeled Videos for Simulation-based Crowd Behavior
  Learning

  We present a novel procedural framework to generate an arbitrary number of
labeled crowd videos (LCrowdV). The resulting crowd video datasets are used to
design accurate algorithms or training models for crowded scene understanding.
Our overall approach is composed of two components: a procedural simulation
framework for generating crowd movements and behaviors, and a procedural
rendering framework to generate different videos or images. Each video or image
is automatically labeled based on the environment, number of pedestrians,
density, behavior, flow, lighting conditions, viewpoint, noise, etc.
Furthermore, we can increase the realism by combining synthetically-generated
behaviors with real-world background videos. We demonstrate the benefits of
LCrowdV over prior lableled crowd datasets by improving the accuracy of
pedestrian detection and crowd behavior classification algorithms. LCrowdV
would be released on the WWW.


Efficient Penetration Depth Computation between Rigid Models using
  Contact Space Propagation Sampling

  We present a novel method to compute the approximate global penetration depth
(PD) between two non-convex geometric models. Our approach consists of two
phases: offline precomputation and run-time queries. In the first phase, our
formulation uses a novel sampling algorithm to precompute an approximation of
the high-dimensional contact space between the pair of models. As compared with
prior random sampling algorithms for contact space approximation, our
propagation sampling considerably speeds up the precomputation and yields a
high quality approximation. At run-time, we perform a nearest-neighbor query
and local projection to efficiently compute the translational or generalized
PD. We demonstrate the performance of our approach on complex 3D benchmarks
with tens or hundreds of thousands of triangles, and we observe significant
improvement over previous methods in terms of accuracy, with a modest
improvement in the run-time performance.


Motion Planning for Fluid Manipulation using Simplified Dynamics

  We present an optimization-based motion planning algorithm to compute a
smooth, collision-free trajectory for a manipulator used to transfer a liquid
from a source to a target container. We take into account fluid dynamics
constraints as part of trajectory computation. In order to avoid the high
complexity of exact fluid simulation, we introduce a simplified dynamics model
based on physically inspired approximations and system identification. Our
optimization approach can incorporate various other constraints such as
collision avoidance with the obstacles, kinematic and dynamics constraints of
the manipulator, and fluid dynamics characteristics. We demonstrate the
performance of our planner on different benchmarks corresponding to various
obstacles and container shapes. Furthermore, we also evaluate its accuracy by
validating the motion plan using an accurate but computationally costly
Navier-Stokes fluid simulation.


Exemplar-AMMs: Recognizing Crowd Movements from Pedestrian Trajectories

  In this paper, we present a novel method to recognize the types of crowd
movement from crowd trajectories using agent-based motion models (AMMs). Our
idea is to apply a number of AMMs, referred to as exemplar-AMMs, to describe
the crowd movement. Specifically, we propose an optimization framework that
filters out the unknown noise in the crowd trajectories and measures their
similarity to the exemplar-AMMs to produce a crowd motion feature. We then
address our real-world crowd movement recognition problem as a multi-label
classification problem. Our experiments show that the proposed feature
outperforms the state-of-the-art methods in recognizing both simulated and
real-world crowd movements from their trajectories. Finally, we have created a
synthetic dataset, SynCrowd, which contains 2D crowd trajectories in various
scenarios, generated by various crowd simulators. This dataset can serve as a
training set or benchmark for crowd analysis work.


Effects of virtual acoustics on dynamic auditory distance perception

  Sound propagation encompasses various acoustic phenomena including
reverberation. Current virtual acoustic methods, ranging from parametric
filters to physically-accurate solvers, can simulate reverberation with varying
degrees of fidelity. We investigate the effects of reverberant sounds generated
using different propagation algorithms on acoustic distance perception, i.e.,
how faraway humans perceive a sound source. In particular, we evaluate two
classes of methods for real-time sound propagation in dynamic scenes based on
parametric filters and ray tracing. Our study shows that the more accurate
method shows less distance compression as compared to the approximate,
filter-based method. This suggests that accurate reverberation in VR results in
a better reproduction of acoustic distances. We also quantify the levels of
distance compression introduced by different propagation methods in a virtual
environment.


Leveraging Long-Term Predictions and Online-Learning in Agent-based
  Multiple Person Tracking

  We present a multiple-person tracking algorithm, based on combining particle
filters and RVO, an agent-based crowd model that infers collision-free
velocities so as to predict pedestrian's motion. In addition to position and
velocity, our tracking algorithm can estimate the internal goals (desired
destination or desired velocity) of the tracked pedestrian in an online manner,
thus removing the need to specify this information beforehand. Furthermore, we
leverage the longer-term predictions of RVO by deriving a higher-order particle
filter, which aggregates multiple predictions from different prior time steps.
This yields a tracker that can recover from short-term occlusions and spurious
noise in the appearance model. Experimental results show that our tracking
algorithm is suitable for predicting pedestrians' behaviors online without
needing scene priors or hand-annotated goal information, and improves tracking
in real-world crowded scenes under low frame rates.


Realtime Multilevel Crowd Tracking using Reciprocal Velocity Obstacles

  We present a novel, realtime algorithm to compute the trajectory of each
pedestrian in moderately dense crowd scenes. Our formulation is based on an
adaptive particle filtering scheme that uses a multi-agent motion model based
on velocity-obstacles, and takes into account local interactions as well as
physical and personal constraints of each pedestrian. Our method dynamically
changes the number of particles allocated to each pedestrian based on different
confidence metrics. Additionally, we use a new high-definition crowd video
dataset, which is used to evaluate the performance of different pedestrian
tracking algorithms. This dataset consists of videos of indoor and outdoor
scenes, recorded at different locations with 30-80 pedestrians. We highlight
the performance benefits of our algorithm over prior techniques using this
dataset. In practice, our algorithm can compute trajectories of tens of
pedestrians on a multi-core desktop CPU at interactive rates (27-30 frames per
second). To the best of our knowledge, our approach is 4-5 times faster than
prior methods, which provide similar accuracy.


Efficient Multi-Agent Global Navigation Using Interpolating Bridges

  We present a novel approach for collision-free global navigation for
continuous-time multi-agent systems with general linear dynamics. Our approach
is general and can be used to perform collision-free navigation in 2D and 3D
workspaces with narrow passages and crowded regions. As part of
pre-computation, we compute multiple bridges in the narrow or tight regions in
the workspace using kinodynamic RRT algorithms. Our bridge has certain
geometric characteristics, that en- able us to calculate a collision-free
trajectory for each agent using simple interpolation at runtime. Moreover, we
combine interpolated bridge trajectories with local multi-agent navigation
algorithms to compute global collision-free paths for each agent. The overall
approach combines the performance benefits of coupled multi-agent algorithms
with the pre- computed trajectories of the bridges to handle challenging
scenarios. In practice, our approach can handle tens to hundreds of agents in
real-time on a single CPU core in 2D and 3D workspaces.


Efficient Optimal Control of Smoke using Spacetime Multigrid

  We present a novel algorithm to control the physically-based animation of
smoke. Given a set of keyframe smoke shapes, we compute a dense sequence of
control force fields that can drive the smoke shape to match several keyframes
at certain time instances. Our approach formulates this control problem as a
PDE constrained spacetime optimization and computes locally optimal control
forces as the stationary point of the Karush-Kuhn-Tucker conditions. In order
to reduce the high complexity of multiple passes of fluid resimulation, we
utilize the coherence between consecutive fluid simulation passes and update
our solution using a novel spacetime full approximation scheme (STFAS). We
demonstrate the benefits of our approach by computing accurate solutions on 2D
and 3D benchmarks. In practice, we observe more than an order of magnitude
improvement over prior methods.


I-Planner: Intention-Aware Motion Planning Using Learning Based Human
  Motion Prediction

  We present a motion planning algorithm to compute collision-free and smooth
trajectories for high-DOF robots interacting with humans in a shared workspace.
Our approach uses offline learning of human actions along with temporal
coherence to predict the human actions. Our intention-aware online planning
algorithm uses the learned database to compute a reliable trajectory based on
the predicted actions. We represent the predicted human motion using a Gaussian
distribution and compute tight upper bounds on collision probabilities for safe
motion planning. We also describe novel techniques to account for noise in
human motion prediction. We highlight the performance of our planning algorithm
in complex simulated scenarios and real world benchmarks with 7-DOF robot arms
operating in a workspace with a human performing complex tasks. We demonstrate
the benefits of our intention-aware planner in terms of computing safe
trajectories in such uncertain environments.


Chance constraint based multi agent navigation under uncertainty

  We present Probabilistic Reciprocal Velocity Obstacle or PRVO as a general
algorithm for navigating multiple robots under perception and motion
uncertainty. PRVO is defined as the space of velocities that ensures dynamic
collision avoidance between a pair of robots with a specified probability. Our
approach is based on defining chance constraints over the inequalities defined
by the deterministic Reciprocal Velocity Obstacle (RVO). The computational
complexity of the proposed probabilistic RVO is comparable to the deterministic
counterpart. This is achieved by a series of reformulations where we first
substitute the computationally intractable chance constraints with a family of
surrogate constraints and then adopt a time scaling based solution methodology
to efficiently characterize their solution space. Further, we also show that
the solution space of each member of the family of surrogate constraints can be
mapped in closed form to the probability with which the original chance
constraints are satisfied and thus consequently to probability of collision
avoidance. We validate our formulations through numerical simulations where we
highlight the importance of incorporating the effect of motion uncertainty and
the advantages of PRVO over existing formulations which handles the effect of
uncertainty by using conservative bounding volumes.


Recurrent 3D Attentional Networks for End-to-End Active Object
  Recognition

  Active vision is inherently attention-driven: The agent actively selects
views to attend in order to fast achieve the vision task while improving its
internal representation of the scene being observed. Inspired by the recent
success of attention-based models in 2D vision tasks based on single RGB
images, we propose to address the multi-view depth-based active object
recognition using attention mechanism, through developing an end-to-end
recurrent 3D attentional network. The architecture takes advantage of a
recurrent neural network (RNN) to store and update an internal representation.
Our model, trained with 3D shape datasets, is able to iteratively attend to the
best views targeting an object of interest for recognizing it. To realize 3D
view selection, we derive a 3D spatial transformer network which is
differentiable for training with backpropagation, achieving much faster
convergence than the reinforcement learning employed by most existing
attention-based models. Experiments show that our method, with only depth
input, achieves state-of-the-art next-best-view performance in time efficiency
and recognition accuracy.


AutonoVi: Autonomous Vehicle Planning with Dynamic Maneuvers and Traffic
  Constraints

  We present AutonoVi:, a novel algorithm for autonomous vehicle navigation
that supports dynamic maneuvers and satisfies traffic constraints and norms.
Our approach is based on optimization-based maneuver planning that supports
dynamic lane-changes, swerving, and braking in all traffic scenarios and guides
the vehicle to its goal position. We take into account various traffic
constraints, including collision avoidance with other vehicles, pedestrians,
and cyclists using control velocity obstacles. We use a data-driven approach to
model the vehicle dynamics for control and collision avoidance. Furthermore,
our trajectory computation algorithm takes into account traffic rules and
behaviors, such as stopping at intersections and stoplights, based on an
arc-spline representation. We have evaluated our algorithm in a simulated
environment and tested its interactive performance in urban and highway driving
scenarios with tens of vehicles, pedestrians, and cyclists. These scenarios
include jaywalking pedestrians, sudden stops from high speeds, safely passing
cyclists, a vehicle suddenly swerving into the roadway, and high-density
traffic where the vehicle must change lanes to progress more effectively.


Efficient Generation of Motion Plans from Attribute-Based Natural
  Language Instructions Using Dynamic Constraint Mapping

  We present an algorithm for combining natural language processing (NLP) and
fast robot motion planning to automatically generate robot movements. Our
formulation uses a novel concept called Dynamic Constraint Mapping to transform
complex, attribute-based natural language instructions into appropriate cost
functions and parametric constraints for optimization-based motion planning. We
generate a factor graph from natural language instructions called the Dynamic
Grounding Graph (DGG), which takes latent parameters into account. The
coefficients of this factor graph are learned based on conditional random
fields (CRFs) and are used to dynamically generate the constraints for motion
planning. We map the cost function directly to the motion parameters of the
planner and compute smooth trajectories in dynamic scenes. We highlight the
performance of our approach in a simulated environment and via a human
interacting with a 7-DOF Fetch robot using intricate language commands
including negation, orientation specification, and distance constraints.


MixedPeds: Pedestrian Detection in Unannotated Videos using
  Synthetically Generated Human-agents for Training

  We present a new method for training pedestrian detectors on an unannotated
set of images. We produce a mixed reality dataset that is composed of
real-world background images and synthetically generated static human-agents.
Our approach is general, robust, and makes no other assumptions about the
unannotated dataset regarding the number or location of pedestrians. We
automatically extract from the dataset: i) the vanishing point to calibrate the
virtual camera, and ii) the pedestrians' scales to generate a Spawn Probability
Map, which is a novel concept that guides our algorithm to place the
pedestrians at appropriate locations. After putting synthetic human-agents in
the unannotated images, we use these augmented images to train a Pedestrian
Detector, with the annotations generated along with the synthetic agents. We
conducted our experiments using Faster R-CNN by comparing the detection results
on the unannotated dataset performed by the detector trained using our approach
and detectors trained with other manually labeled datasets. We showed that our
approach improves the average precision by 5-13% over these detectors.


Active Animations of Reduced Deformable Models with Environment
  Interactions

  We present an efficient spacetime optimization method to automatically
generate animations for a general volumetric, elastically deformable body. Our
approach can model the interactions between the body and the environment and
automatically generate active animations. We model the frictional contact
forces using contact invariant optimization and the fluid drag forces using a
simplified model. To handle complex objects, we use a reduced deformable model
and present a novel hybrid optimizer to search for the local minima
efficiently. This allows us to use long-horizon motion planning to
automatically generate animations such as walking, jumping, swimming, and
rolling. We evaluate the approach on different shapes and animations, including
deformable body navigation and combining with an open-loop controller for
realtime forward simulation.


Manipulating Highly Deformable Materials Using a Visual Feedback
  Dictionary

  The complex physical properties of highly deformable materials such as
clothes pose significant challenges fanipulation systems. We present a novel
visual feedback dictionary-based method for manipulating defoor autonomous
robotic mrmable objects towards a desired configuration. Our approach is based
on visual servoing and we use an efficient technique to extract key features
from the RGB sensor stream in the form of a histogram of deformable model
features. These histogram features serve as high-level representations of the
state of the deformable material. Next, we collect manipulation data and use a
visual feedback dictionary that maps the velocity in the high-dimensional
feature space to the velocity of the robotic end-effectors for manipulation. We
have evaluated our approach on a set of complex manipulation tasks and
human-robot manipulation tasks on different cloth pieces with varying material
characteristics.


Reflection-Aware Sound Source Localization

  We present a novel, reflection-aware method for 3D sound localization in
indoor environments. Unlike prior approaches, which are mainly based on
continuous sound signals from a stationary source, our formulation is designed
to localize the position instantaneously from signals within a single frame. We
consider direct sound and indirect sound signals that reach the microphones
after reflecting off surfaces such as ceilings or walls. We then generate and
trace direct and reflected acoustic paths using inverse acoustic ray tracing
and utilize these paths with Monte Carlo localization to estimate a 3D sound
source position. We have implemented our method on a robot with a cube-shaped
microphone array and tested it against different settings with continuous and
intermittent sound signals with a stationary or a mobile source. Across
different settings, our approach can localize the sound with an average
distance error of 0.8m tested in a room of 7m by 7m area with 3m height,
including a mobile and non-line-of-sight sound source. We also reveal that the
modeling of indirect rays increases the localization accuracy by 40% compared
to only using direct acoustic rays.


A unified crowd simulation model revealing relationships among
  "Physiology-Psychology-Physics" factors

  We present a unified model for crowd simulation, CubeP, which comprehensively
considers physiological, psychological, and physical factors. Inspired by the
theory of "the devoted actor," the movements of each individual in our model
are determined by modeling the physical influence of physical strength
consumption and the emotion of panic. In particular, human physical strength
consumption is computed using a physics-based numerical method. Inspired by the
James-Lange theory, panic emotion is estimated by means of an enhanced
emotional contagion model that leverages the inherent relation between physical
strength consumption and panic emotion. To the best of our knowledge, our model
is the first method that integrates physiological, psychological, and physical
factors together and exploits the relationship between these factors. We
highlight the performance on different scenarios and compare the resulting
behavior with real-world video sequences. Our approach can reliably predict the
changes in physical strength consumption and panic emotion of individuals in an
emergency situation.


Cloth Manipulation Using Random-Forest-Based Imitation Learning

  We present a novel approach for robust manipulation of high-DOF deformable
objects such as cloth. Our approach uses a random forest-based controller that
maps the observed visual features of the cloth to an optimal control action of
the manipulator. The topological structure of this random forest-based
controller is determined automatically based on the training data consisting
visual features and optimal control actions. This enables us to integrate the
overall process of training data classification and controller optimization
into an imitation learning (IL) approach. Our approach enables learning of
robust control policy for cloth manipulation with guarantees on convergence.We
have evaluated our approach on different multi-task cloth manipulation
benchmarks such as flattening, folding and twisting. In practice, our approach
works well with different deformable features learned based on the specific
task or deep learning. Moreover, our controller outperforms a simple or
piecewise linear controller in terms of robustness to noise. In addition, our
approach is easy to implement and does not require much parameter tuning.


Efficient Reciprocal Collision Avoidance between Heterogeneous Agents
  Using CTMAT

  We present a novel algorithm for reciprocal collision avoidance between
heterogeneous agents of different shapes and sizes. We present a novel CTMAT
representation based on medial axis transform to compute a tight fitting
bounding shape for each agent. Each CTMAT is represented using tuples, which
are composed of circular arcs and line segments. Based on the reciprocal
velocity obstacle formulation, we reduce the problem to solving a
low-dimensional linear programming between each pair of tuples belonging to
adjacent agents. We precompute the Minkowski Sums of tuples to accelerate the
runtime performance. Finally, we provide an efficient method to update the
orientation of each agent in a local manner. We have implemented the algorithm
and highlight its performance on benchmarks corresponding to road traffic
scenarios and different vehicles. The overall runtime performance is comparable
to prior multi-agent collision avoidance algorithms that use circular or
elliptical agents. Our approach is less conservative and results in fewer false
collisions.


AutoRVO: Local Navigation with Dynamic Constraints in Dense
  Heterogeneous Traffic

  We present a novel algorithm for computing collision-free navigation for
heterogeneous road-agents such as cars, tricycles, bicycles, and pedestrians in
dense traffic. Our approach currently assumes the positions, shapes, and
velocities of all vehicles and pedestrians are known and computes smooth
trajectories for each agent by taking into account the dynamic constraints. We
describe an efficient optimization-based algorithm for each road-agent based on
reciprocal velocity obstacles that takes into account kinematic and dynamic
constraints. Our algorithm uses tight fitting shape representations based on
medial axis to compute collision-free trajectories in dense traffic situations.
We evaluate the performance of our algorithm in real-world dense traffic
scenarios and highlight the benefits over prior reciprocal collision avoidance
schemes.


The Socially Invisible Robot: Navigation in the Social World using Robot
  Entitativity

  We present a real-time, data-driven algorithm to enhance the
social-invisibility of robots within crowds. Our approach is based on prior
psychological research, which reveals that people notice
and--importantly--react negatively to groups of social actors when they have
high entitativity, moving in a tight group with similar appearances and
trajectories. In order to evaluate that behavior, we performed a user study to
develop navigational algorithms that minimize entitativity. This study
establishes a mapping between emotional reactions and multi-robot trajectories
and appearances and further generalizes the finding across various
environmental conditions. We demonstrate the applicability of our entitativity
modeling for trajectory computation for active surveillance and dynamic
intervention in simulated robot-human interaction scenarios. Our approach
empirically shows that various levels of entitative robots can be used to both
avoid and influence pedestrians while not eliciting strong emotional reactions,
giving multi-robot systems socially-invisibility.


Receiver Placement for Speech Enhancement using Sound Propagation
  Optimization

  A common problem in acoustic design is the placement of speakers or receivers
for public address systems, telecommunications, and home smart speakers or
digital personal assistants. We present a novel algorithm to automatically
place a speaker or receiver in a room to improve the intelligibility of spoken
phrases in a design. Our technique uses a sound propagation optimization
formulation to maximize the Speech Transmission Index (STI) by computing an
optimal location of the sound receiver. We use an efficient and accurate hybrid
sound propagation technique on complex 3D models to compute the Room Impulse
Responses (RIR) and evaluate their impact on the STI. The overall algorithm
computes a globally optimal position of the receiver that reduces the effects
of reverberation and noise over many source positions. We evaluate our
algorithm on various indoor 3D models, all showing significant improvement in
STI, based on accurate sound propagation.


PORCA: Modeling and Planning for Autonomous Driving among Many
  Pedestrians

  This paper presents a planning system for autonomous driving among many
pedestrians. A key ingredient of our approach is PORCA, a pedestrian motion
prediction model that accounts for both a pedestrian's global navigation
intention and local interactions with the vehicle and other pedestrians.
Unfortunately, the autonomous vehicle does not know the pedestrian's intention
a priori and requires a planning algorithm that hedges against the uncertainty
in pedestrian intentions. Our planning system combines a POMDP algorithm with
the pedestrian motion model and runs in near real time. Experiments show that
it enables a robot vehicle to drive safely, efficiently, and smoothly among a
crowd with a density of nearly one person per square meter.


Transferring Grasp Configurations using Active Learning and Local
  Replanning

  We present a new approach to transfer grasp configurations from prior example
objects to novel objects. We assume the novel and example objects have the same
topology and similar shapes. We perform 3D segmentation on these objects using
geometric and semantic shape characteristics. We compute a grasp space for each
part of the example object using active learning. We build bijective contact
mapping between these model parts and compute the corresponding grasps for
novel objects. Finally, we assemble the individual parts and use local
replanning to adjust grasp configurations while maintaining its stability and
physical constraints. Our approach is general, can handle all kind of objects
represented using mesh or point cloud and a variety of robotic hands.


Fast Motion Planning for High-DOF Robot Systems Using Hierarchical
  System Identification

  We present an efficient algorithm for motion planning and control of a robot
system with a high number of degrees-of-freedom. These include high-DOF soft
robots or an articulated robot interacting with a deformable environment. Our
approach takes into account dynamics constraints and present a novel technique
to accelerate the forward dynamic computation using a data-driven method. We
precompute the forward dynamic function of the robot system on a hierarchical
adaptive grid. Furthermore, we exploit the properties of underactuated robot
systems and perform these computations for a few DOFs. We provide error bounds
for our approximate forward dynamics computation and use our approach for
optimization-based motion planning and reinforcement-learning-based feedback
control. Our formulation is used for motion planning of two high DOF robot
systems: a high-DOF line-actuated elastic robot arm and an underwater swimming
robot operating in water. As compared to prior techniques based on exact
dynamic function computation, we observe one to two orders of magnitude
improvement in performance.


Data-Driven Modeling of Group Entitativity in Virtual Environments

  We present a data-driven algorithm to model and predict the socio-emotional
impact of groups on observers. Psychological research finds that highly
entitative i.e. cohesive and uniform groups induce threat and unease in
observers. Our algorithm models realistic trajectory-level behaviors to
classify and map the motion-based entitativity of crowds. This mapping is based
on a statistical scheme that dynamically learns pedestrian behavior and
computes the resultant entitativity induced emotion through group motion
characteristics. We also present a novel interactive multi-agent simulation
algorithm to model entitative groups and conduct a VR user study to validate
the socio-emotional predictive power of our algorithm. We further show that
model-generated high-entitativity groups do induce more negative emotions than
low-entitative groups.


Interactive Surveillance Technologies for Dense Crowds

  We present an algorithm for realtime anomaly detection in low to medium
density crowd videos using trajectory-level behavior learning. Our formulation
combines online tracking algorithms from computer vision, non-linear pedestrian
motion models from crowd simulation, and Bayesian learning techniques to
automatically compute the trajectory-level pedestrian behaviors for each agent
in the video. These learned behaviors are used to segment the trajectories and
motions of different pedestrians or agents and detect anomalies. We demonstrate
the interactive performance on the PETS ARENA dataset as well as indoor and
outdoor crowd video benchmarks consisting of tens of human agents. We also
discuss the implications of recent public policy and law enforcement issues
relating to surveillance and our research.


Pedestrian Dominance Modeling for Socially-Aware Robot Navigation

  We present a Pedestrian Dominance Model (PDM) to identify the dominance
characteristics of pedestrians for robot navigation. Through a perception study
on a simulated dataset of pedestrians, PDM models the perceived dominance
levels of pedestrians with varying motion behaviors corresponding to
trajectory, speed, and personal space. At runtime, we use PDM to identify the
dominance levels of pedestrians to facilitate socially-aware navigation for the
robots. PDM can predict dominance levels from trajectories with ~85% accuracy.
Prior studies in psychology literature indicate that when interacting with
humans, people are more comfortable around people that exhibit complementary
movement behaviors. Our algorithm leverages this by enabling the robots to
exhibit complementing responses to pedestrian dominance. We also present an
application of PDM for generating dominance-based collision-avoidance behaviors
in the navigation of autonomous vehicles among pedestrians. We demonstrate the
benefits of our algorithm for robots navigating among tens of pedestrians in
simulated environments.


Collision-Free Kinematics for Redundant Manipulators in Dynamic Scenes
  using Optimal Reciprocal Velocity Obstacles

  We present a novel algorithm for collision-free kinematics of multiple
manipulators in a shared workspace with moving obstacles. Our
optimization-based approach simultaneously handles collision-free constraints
based on reciprocal velocity obstacles and inverse kinematics constraints for
high-DOF manipulators. We present an efficient method based on particle swarm
optimization that can generate collision-free configurations for each redundant
manipulator. Furthermore, our approach can be used to compute safe and
oscillation-free trajectories in a few milli-seconds. We highlight the
real-time performance of our algorithm on multiple Baxter robots with 14-DOF
manipulators operating in a workspace with dynamic obstacles. Videos are
available at https://sites.google.com/view/collision-free-kinematics


VV-Net: Voxel VAE Net with Group Convolutions for Point Cloud
  Segmentation

  We present a novel algorithm for point cloud segmentation. Our approach uses
a radial basis function (RBF) based variational auto-encoder (VAE) network with
group convolutions defined on $\mathbb{Z}^3$ to robustly segment point clouds
without increasing the number of parameters. We transform unstructured point
clouds into regular voxel grids and use subvoxels within each voxel to encode
the local geometry using a VAE architecture. Traditionally, the voxel
representation only comprises Boolean occupancy information, which fails to
capture the sparsely distributed points within voxels in a compact manner. In
order to handle sparse distribution of points within each voxel, we further
employ RBF to compute a local, continuous representation within each subvoxel.
We extend group equivariant convolutions to 3D point cloud processing and
increase the expressive capacity of the neural network. The combination of RBF
and VAE results in a good volumetric representation that can handle noisy point
cloud datasets and is more robust for learning. We highlight the performance on
standard benchmarks and compare with prior methods. In practice, our approach
outperforms state-of-the-art segmentation algorithms on the ShapeNet and S3DIS
datasets.


Heter-Sim: Heterogeneous multi-agent systems simulation by interactive
  data-driven optimization

  Interactive multi-agent simulation algorithms are used to compute the
trajectories and behaviors of different entities in virtual reality scenarios.
However, current methods involve considerable parameter tweaking to generate
plausible behaviors. We introduce a novel approach (Heter-Sim) that combines
physics-based simulation methods with data-driven techniques using an
optimization-based formulation. Our approach is general and can simulate
heterogeneous agents corresponding to human crowds, traffic, vehicles, or
combinations of different agents with varying dynamics. We estimate motion
states from real-world datasets that include information about position,
velocity, and control direction. Our optimization algorithm considers several
constraints, including velocity continuity, collision avoidance, attraction,
and direction control. To accelerate the computations, we reduce the search
space for both collision avoidance and optimal solution computation. Heter-Sim
can simulate tens or hundreds of agents at interactive rates and we compare its
accuracy with real-world datasets and prior algorithms. We also perform user
studies that evaluate the plausible behaviors generated by our algorithm and a
user study that evaluates the plausibility of our algorithm via VR.


TraPHic: Trajectory Prediction in Dense and Heterogeneous Traffic Using
  Weighted Interactions

  We present a new algorithm for predicting the near-term trajectories of
road-agents in dense traffic videos. Our approach is designed for heterogeneous
traffic, where the road-agents may correspond to buses, cars, scooters,
bicycles, or pedestrians. We model the interactions between different
road-agents using a novel LSTM-CNN hybrid network for trajectory prediction. In
particular, we take into account heterogeneous interactions that implicitly
accounts for the varying shapes, dynamics, and behaviors of different road
agents. In addition, we model horizon-based interactions which are used to
implicitly model the driving behavior of each road-agent. We evaluate the
performance of our prediction algorithm, TraPHic, on the standard datasets and
also introduce a new dense, heterogeneous traffic dataset corresponding to
urban Asian videos and agent trajectories. We outperform state-of-the-art
methods on dense traffic datasets by 30%.


Modeling Data-Driven Dominance Traits for Virtual Characters using Gait
  Analysis

  We present a data-driven algorithm for generating gaits of virtual characters
with varying dominance traits. Our formulation utilizes a user study to
establish a data-driven dominance mapping between gaits and dominance labels.
We use our dominance mapping to generate walking gaits for virtual characters
that exhibit a variety of dominance traits while interacting with the user.
Furthermore, we extract gait features based on known criteria in visual
perception and psychology literature that can be used to identify the dominance
levels of any walking gait. We validate our mapping and the perceived dominance
traits by a second user study in an immersive virtual environment. Our gait
dominance classification algorithm can classify the dominance traits of gaits
with ~73% accuracy. We also present an application of our approach that
simulates interpersonal relationships between virtual characters. To the best
of our knowledge, ours is the first practical approach to classifying gait
dominance and generate dominance traits in virtual characters.


P-Reverb: Perceptual Characterization of Early and Late Reflections for
  Auditory Displays

  We introduce a novel, perceptually derived metric (P-Reverb) that relates the
just-noticeable difference (JND) of the early sound field(also called early
reflections) to the late sound field (known as late reflections or
reverberation). Early and late reflections are crucial components of the sound
field and provide multiple perceptual cues for auditory displays. We conduct
two extensive user evaluations that relate the JNDs of early reflections and
late reverberation in terms of the mean-free path of the environment and
present a novel P-Reverb metric. Our metric is used to estimate dynamic
reverberation characteristics efficiently in terms of important parameters like
reverberation time (RT60). We show the numerical accuracy of our P-Reverb
metric in estimating RT60. Finally, we use our metric to design an interactive
sound propagation algorithm and demonstrate its effectiveness on various
benchmarks.


LSwarm: Efficient Collision Avoidance for Large Swarms with Coverage
  Constraints in Complex Urban Scenes

  In this paper, we address the problem of collision avoidance for a swarm of
UAVs used for continuous surveillance of an urban environment. Our method,
LSwarm, efficiently avoids collisions with static obstacles, dynamic obstacles
and other agents in 3-D urban environments while considering coverage
constraints. LSwarm computes collision avoiding velocities that (i) maximize
the conformity of an agent to an optimal path given by a global coverage
strategy and (ii) ensure sufficient resolution of the coverage data collected
by each agent. Our algorithm is formulated based on ORCA (Optimal Reciprocal
Collision Avoidance) and is scalable with respect to the size of the swarm. We
evaluate the coverage performance of LSwarm in realistic simulations of a swarm
of quadrotors in complex urban models. In practice, our approach can compute
collision avoiding velocities for a swarm composed of tens to hundreds of
agents in a few milliseconds on dense urban scenes consisting of tens of
buildings.


Efficient Probabilistic Collision Detection for Non-Gaussian Noise
  Distributions

  We present an efficient algorithm to compute tight upper bounds of collision
probability between two objects with positional uncertainties, whose error
distributions are represented with non-Gaussian forms. Our approach can handle
noisy datasets from depth sensors, whose distributions may correspond to
Truncated Gaussian, Weighted Samples, or Truncated Gaussian Mixture Model. We
derive tight probability bounds for convex shapes and extend them to non-convex
shapes using hierarchical representations. We highlight the benefits of our
approach over prior probabilistic collision detection algorithms in terms of
tighter bounds (10x) and improved running time (3x). Moreover, we use our tight
bounds to design an efficient and accurate motion planning algorithm for a
7-DOF robot arm operating in tight scenarios with sensor and motion
uncertainties.


The Emotionally Intelligent Robot: Improving Social Navigation in
  Crowded Environments

  We present a real-time algorithm for emotion-aware navigation of a robot
among pedestrians. Our approach estimates time-varying emotional behaviors of
pedestrians from their faces and trajectories using a combination of
Bayesian-inference, CNN-based learning, and the PAD
(Pleasure-Arousal-Dominance) model from psychology. These PAD characteristics
are used for long-term path prediction and generating proxemic constraints for
each pedestrian. We use a multi-channel model to classify pedestrian
characteristics into four emotion categories (happy, sad, angry, neutral). In
our validation results, we observe an emotion detection accuracy of 85.33%. We
formulate emotion-based proxemic constraints to perform socially-aware robot
navigation in low- to medium-density environments. We demonstrate the benefits
of our algorithm in simulated environments with tens of pedestrians as well as
in a real-world setting with Pepper, a social humanoid robot.


PaintBot: A Reinforcement Learning Approach for Natural Media Painting

  We propose a new automated digital painting framework, based on a painting
agent trained through reinforcement learning. To synthesize an image, the agent
selects a sequence of continuous-valued actions representing primitive painting
strokes, which are accumulated on a digital canvas. Action selection is guided
by a given reference image, which the agent attempts to replicate subject to
the limitations of the action space and the agent's learned policy. The
painting agent policy is determined using a variant of proximal policy
optimization reinforcement learning. During training, our agent is presented
with patches sampled from an ensemble of reference images. To accelerate
training convergence, we adopt a curriculum learning strategy, whereby
reference patches are sampled according to how challenging they are using the
current policy. We experiment with differing loss functions, including
pixel-wise and perceptual loss, which have consequent differing effects on the
learned policy. We demonstrate that our painting agent can learn an effective
policy with a high dimensional continuous action space comprising pen pressure,
width, tilt, and color, for a variety of painting styles. Through a
coarse-to-fine refinement process our agent can paint arbitrarily complex
images in the desired style.


