IPED2: Inheritance Path based Pedigree Reconstruction Algorithm for
  Complicated Pedigrees

  Reconstruction of family trees, or pedigree reconstruction, for a group of
individuals is a fundamental problem in genetics. The problem is known to be
NP-hard even for datasets known to only contain siblings. Some recent methods
have been developed to accurately and efficiently reconstruct pedigrees. These
methods, however, still consider relatively simple pedigrees, for example, they
are not able to handle half-sibling situations where a pair of individuals only
share one parent. In this work, we propose an efficient method, IPED2, based on
our previous work, which specifically targets reconstruction of complicated
pedigrees that include half-siblings. We note that the presence of
half-siblings makes the reconstruction problem significantly more challenging
which is why previous methods exclude the possibility of half-siblings. We
proposed a novel model as well as an efficient graph algorithm and experiments
show that our algorithm achieves relatively accurate reconstruction. To our
knowledge, this is the first method that is able to handle pedigree
reconstruction based on genotype data only when half-sibling exists in any
generation of the pedigree.


A general framework for meta-analyzing dependent studies with
  overlapping subjects in association mapping

  Meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies is increasingly popular and
many meta-analytic methods have been recently proposed. A majority of
meta-analytic methods combine information from multiple studies by assuming
that studies are independent since individuals collected in one study are
unlikely to be collected again by another study. However, it has become
increasingly common to utilize the same control individuals among multiple
studies to reduce genotyping or sequencing cost. This causes those studies that
share the same individuals to be dependent, and spurious associations may arise
if overlapping subjects are not taken into account in a meta-analysis. In this
paper, we propose a general framework for meta-analyzing dependent studies with
overlapping subjects. Given dependent studies, our approach "decouples" the
studies into independent studies such that meta-analysis methods assuming
independent studies can be applied. This enables many meta-analysis methods,
such as the random effects model, to account for overlapping subjects. Another
advantage is that one can continue to use preferred software in the analysis
pipeline which may not support overlapping subjects. Using simulations and the
Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium data, we show that our decoupling
approach allows both the fixed and the random effects models to account for
overlapping subjects while retaining desirable false positive rate and power.


