The Melbourne Shuffle: Improving Oblivious Storage in the Cloud

  We present a simple, efficient, and secure data-oblivious randomized shuffle
algorithm. This is the first secure data-oblivious shuffle that is not based on
sorting. Our method can be used to improve previous oblivious storage solutions
for network-based outsourcing of data.


Steady state analysis of balanced-allocation routing

  We compare the long-term, steady-state performance of a variant of the
standard Dynamic Alternative Routing (DAR) technique commonly used in telephone
and ATM networks, to the performance of a path-selection algorithm based on the
"balanced-allocation" principle; we refer to this new algorithm as the Balanced
Dynamic Alternative Routing (BDAR) algorithm. While DAR checks alternative
routes sequentially until available bandwidth is found, the BDAR algorithm
compares and chooses the best among a small number of alternatives.
  We show that, at the expense of a minor increase in routing overhead, the
BDAR algorithm gives a substantial improvement in network performance, in terms
both of network congestion and of bandwidth requirement.


ABRA: Approximating Betweenness Centrality in Static and Dynamic Graphs
  with Rademacher Averages

  We present ABRA, a suite of algorithms that compute and maintain
probabilistically-guaranteed, high-quality, approximations of the betweenness
centrality of all nodes (or edges) on both static and fully dynamic graphs. Our
algorithms rely on random sampling and their analysis leverages on Rademacher
averages and pseudodimension, fundamental concepts from statistical learning
theory. To our knowledge, this is the first application of these concepts to
the field of graph analysis. The results of our experimental evaluation show
that our approach is much faster than exact methods, and vastly outperforms, in
both speed and number of samples, current state-of-the-art algorithms with the
same quality guarantees.


Bandits and Experts in Metric Spaces

  In a multi-armed bandit problem, an online algorithm chooses from a set of
strategies in a sequence of trials so as to maximize the total payoff of the
chosen strategies. While the performance of bandit algorithms with a small
finite strategy set is quite well understood, bandit problems with large
strategy sets are still a topic of very active investigation, motivated by
practical applications such as online auctions and web advertisement. The goal
of such research is to identify broad and natural classes of strategy sets and
payoff functions which enable the design of efficient solutions.
  In this work we study a very general setting for the multi-armed bandit
problem in which the strategies form a metric space, and the payoff function
satisfies a Lipschitz condition with respect to the metric. We refer to this
problem as the "Lipschitz MAB problem". We present a solution for the
multi-armed bandit problem in this setting. That is, for every metric space we
define an isometry invariant which bounds from below the performance of
Lipschitz MAB algorithms for this metric space, and we present an algorithm
which comes arbitrarily close to meeting this bound. Furthermore, our technique
gives even better results for benign payoff functions. We also address the
full-feedback ("best expert") version of the problem, where after every round
the payoffs from all arms are revealed.


Multi-Armed Bandits in Metric Spaces

  In a multi-armed bandit problem, an online algorithm chooses from a set of
strategies in a sequence of trials so as to maximize the total payoff of the
chosen strategies. While the performance of bandit algorithms with a small
finite strategy set is quite well understood, bandit problems with large
strategy sets are still a topic of very active investigation, motivated by
practical applications such as online auctions and web advertisement. The goal
of such research is to identify broad and natural classes of strategy sets and
payoff functions which enable the design of efficient solutions. In this work
we study a very general setting for the multi-armed bandit problem in which the
strategies form a metric space, and the payoff function satisfies a Lipschitz
condition with respect to the metric. We refer to this problem as the
"Lipschitz MAB problem". We present a complete solution for the multi-armed
problem in this setting. That is, for every metric space (L,X) we define an
isometry invariant which bounds from below the performance of Lipschitz MAB
algorithms for X, and we present an algorithm which comes arbitrarily close to
meeting this bound. Furthermore, our technique gives even better results for
benign payoff functions.


MADMX: A Novel Strategy for Maximal Dense Motif Extraction

  We develop, analyze and experiment with a new tool, called MADMX, which
extracts frequent motifs, possibly including don't care characters, from
biological sequences. We introduce density, a simple and flexible measure for
bounding the number of don't cares in a motif, defined as the ratio of solid
(i.e., different from don't care) characters to the total length of the motif.
By extracting only maximal dense motifs, MADMX reduces the output size and
improves performance, while enhancing the quality of the discoveries. The
efficiency of our approach relies on a newly defined combining operation,
dubbed fusion, which allows for the construction of maximal dense motifs in a
bottom-up fashion, while avoiding the generation of nonmaximal ones. We provide
experimental evidence of the efficiency and the quality of the motifs returned
by MADMX


An Efficient Rigorous Approach for Identifying Statistically Significant
  Frequent Itemsets

  As advances in technology allow for the collection, storage, and analysis of
vast amounts of data, the task of screening and assessing the significance of
discovered patterns is becoming a major challenge in data mining applications.
In this work, we address significance in the context of frequent itemset
mining. Specifically, we develop a novel methodology to identify a meaningful
support threshold s* for a dataset, such that the number of itemsets with
support at least s* represents a substantial deviation from what would be
expected in a random dataset with the same number of transactions and the same
individual item frequencies. These itemsets can then be flagged as
statistically significant with a small false discovery rate. We present
extensive experimental results to substantiate the effectiveness of our
methodology.


A Clustering Approach to Solving Large Stochastic Matching Problems

  In this work we focus on efficient heuristics for solving a class of
stochastic planning problems that arise in a variety of business, investment,
and industrial applications. The problem is best described in terms of future
buy and sell contracts. By buying less reliable, but less expensive, buy
(supply) contracts, a company or a trader can cover a position of more reliable
and more expensive sell contracts. The goal is to maximize the expected net
gain (profit) by constructing a dose to optimum portfolio out of the available
buy and sell contracts. This stochastic planning problem can be formulated as a
two-stage stochastic linear programming problem with recourse. However, this
formalization leads to solutions that are exponential in the number of possible
failure combinations. Thus, this approach is not feasible for large scale
problems. In this work we investigate heuristic approximation techniques
alleviating the efficiency problem. We primarily focus on the clustering
approach and devise heuristics for finding clusterings leading to good
approximations. We illustrate the quality and feasibility of the approach
through experimental data.


Space-Round Tradeoffs for MapReduce Computations

  This work explores fundamental modeling and algorithmic issues arising in the
well-established MapReduce framework. First, we formally specify a
computational model for MapReduce which captures the functional flavor of the
paradigm by allowing for a flexible use of parallelism. Indeed, the model
diverges from a traditional processor-centric view by featuring parameters
which embody only global and local memory constraints, thus favoring a more
data-centric view. Second, we apply the model to the fundamental computation
task of matrix multiplication presenting upper and lower bounds for both dense
and sparse matrix multiplication, which highlight interesting tradeoffs between
space and round complexity. Finally, building on the matrix multiplication
results, we derive further space-round tradeoffs on matrix inversion and
matching.


TRIÈST: Counting Local and Global Triangles in Fully-dynamic Streams
  with Fixed Memory Size

  We present TRI\`EST, a suite of one-pass streaming algorithms to compute
unbiased, low-variance, high-quality approximations of the global and local
(i.e., incident to each vertex) number of triangles in a fully-dynamic graph
represented as an adversarial stream of edge insertions and deletions. Our
algorithms use reservoir sampling and its variants to exploit the
user-specified memory space at all times. This is in contrast with previous
approaches which use hard-to-choose parameters (e.g., a fixed sampling
probability) and offer no guarantees on the amount of memory they will use. We
show a full analysis of the variance of the estimations and novel concentration
bounds for these quantities. Our experimental results on very large graphs show
that TRI\`EST outperforms state-of-the-art approaches in accuracy and exhibits
a small update time.


A Practical Parallel Algorithm for Diameter Approximation of Massive
  Weighted Graphs

  We present a space and time efficient practical parallel algorithm for
approximating the diameter of massive weighted undirected graphs on distributed
platforms supporting a MapReduce-like abstraction. The core of the algorithm is
a weighted graph decomposition strategy generating disjoint clusters of bounded
weighted radius. Theoretically, our algorithm uses linear space and yields a
polylogarithmic approximation guarantee; moreover, for important practical
classes of graphs, it runs in a number of rounds asymptotically smaller than
those required by the natural approximation provided by the state-of-the-art
$\Delta$-stepping SSSP algorithm, which is its only practical linear-space
competitor in the aforementioned computational scenario. We complement our
theoretical findings with an extensive experimental analysis on large benchmark
graphs, which demonstrates that our algorithm attains substantial improvements
on a number of key performance indicators with respect to the aforementioned
competitor, while featuring a similar approximation ratio (a small constant
less than 1.4, as opposed to the polylogarithmic theoretical bound).


Optimizing Static and Adaptive Probing Schedules for Rapid Event
  Detection

  We formulate and study a fundamental search and detection problem, Schedule
Optimization, motivated by a variety of real-world applications, ranging from
monitoring content changes on the web, social networks, and user activities to
detecting failure on large systems with many individual machines.
  We consider a large system consists of many nodes, where each node has its
own rate of generating new events, or items. A monitoring application can probe
a small number of nodes at each step, and our goal is to compute a probing
schedule that minimizes the expected number of undiscovered items at the
system, or equivalently, minimizes the expected time to discover a new item in
the system.
  We study the Schedule Optimization problem both for deterministic and
randomized memoryless algorithms. We provide lower bounds on the cost of an
optimal schedule and construct close to optimal schedules with rigorous
mathematical guarantees. Finally, we present an adaptive algorithm that starts
with no prior information on the system and converges to the optimal memoryless
algorithms by adapting to observed data.


Controlling False Discoveries During Interactive Data Exploration

  Recent tools for interactive data exploration significantly increase the
chance that users make false discoveries. The crux is that these tools
implicitly allow the user to test a large body of different hypotheses with
just a few clicks thus incurring in the issue commonly known in statistics as
the multiple hypothesis testing error. In this paper, we propose solutions to
integrate multiple hypothesis testing control into interactive data exploration
tools. A key insight is that existing methods for controlling the false
discovery rate (such as FDR) are not directly applicable for interactive data
exploration. We therefore discuss a set of new control procedures that are
better suited and integrated them in our system called Aware. By means of
extensive experiments using both real-world and synthetic data sets we
demonstrate how Aware can help experts and novice users alike to efficiently
control false discoveries.


Practical and Provably Secure Onion Routing

  In an onion routing protocol, messages travel through several intermediaries
before arriving at their destinations, they are wrapped in layers of encryption
(hence they are called "onions"). The goal is to make it hard to establish who
sent the message. It is a practical and widespread tool for creating anonymous
channels.
  For the standard adversary models --- network, passive, and active --- we
present practical and provably secure onion routing protocols. Akin to Tor, in
our protocols each party independently chooses the routing paths for his
onions. For security parameter $\lambda$, our differentially private solution
for the active adversary takes $O(\log^2\lambda)$ rounds and requires every
participant to transmit $O(\log^{4} \lambda)$ onions in every round.


Unknown Examples & Machine Learning Model Generalization

  Over the past decades, researchers and ML practitioners have come up with
better and better ways to build, understand and improve the quality of ML
models, but mostly under the key assumption that the training data is
distributed identically to the testing data. In many real-world applications,
however, some potential training examples are unknown to the modeler, due to
sample selection bias or, more generally, covariate shift, i.e., a distribution
shift between the training and deployment stage. The resulting discrepancy
between training and testing distributions leads to poor generalization
performance of the ML model and hence biased predictions. We provide novel
algorithms that estimate the number and properties of these unknown training
examples---unknown unknowns. This information can then be used to correct the
training set, prior to seeing any test data. The key idea is to combine
species-estimation techniques with data-driven methods for estimating the
feature values for the unknown unknowns. Experiments on a variety of ML models
and datasets indicate that taking the unknown examples into account can yield a
more robust ML model that generalizes better.


VizRec: A framework for secure data exploration via visual
  representation

  Visual representations of data (visualizations) are tools of great importance
and widespread use in data analytics as they provide users visual insight to
patterns in the observed data in a simple and effective way. However, since
visualizations tools are applied to sample data, there is a a risk of
visualizing random fluctuations in the sample rather than a true pattern in the
data. This problem is even more significant when visualization is used to
identify interesting patterns among many possible possibilities, or to identify
an interesting deviation in a pair of observations among many possible pairs,
as commonly done in visual recommendation systems.
  We present VizRec, a framework for improving the performance of visual
recommendation systems by quantifying the statistical significance of
recommended visualizations. The proposed methodology allows to control the
probability of misleading visual recommendations using both classical
statistical testing procedures and a novel application of the Vapnik
Chervonenkis (VC) dimension method which is a fundamental concept in
statistical learning theory.


Uniform Convergence Bounds for Codec Selection

  We frame the problem of selecting an optimal audio encoding scheme as a
supervised learning task. Through uniform convergence theory, we guarantee
approximately optimal codec selection while controlling for selection bias. We
present rigorous statistical guarantees for the codec selection problem that
hold for arbitrary distributions over audio sequences and for arbitrary quality
metrics. Our techniques can thus balance sound quality and compression ratio,
and use audio samples from the distribution to select a codec that performs
well on that particular type of data. The applications of our technique are
immense, as it can be used to optimize for quality and bandwidth usage of
streaming and other digital media, while significantly outperforming approaches
that apply a fixed codec to all data sources.


On the Complexity of Anonymous Communication Through Public Networks

  Anonymous channels allow users to connect to websites or communicate with one
another privately. Assume that either Alice or Allison is communicating with (a
possibly corrupt) Bob. To protect the sender, we seek a protocol that provably
guarantees that these two scenarios are indistinguishable to an adversary that
can monitor the traffic on all channels of the network and control the internal
operations in a constant fraction of the nodes.
  Onion routing is the method of choice for achieving anonymous communication,
used for example by Tor. In an onion routing protocol, messages travel through
several intermediaries before arriving at their destinations; they are wrapped
in layers of encryption (hence they are called ``onions''). In this paper, we
give the first rigorous characterization of the complexity of onion routing
protocols for anonymous communication through public networks. We show that in
order to provide anonymity, an onion routing scheme requires each participant
to transmit, on average, a superlogarithmic number of onions. We match these
negative results with a protocol in which every participant creates a
polylogarithmic number of onions and participates in a polylogarithmic number
of transmissions.


Mining Top-K Frequent Itemsets Through Progressive Sampling

  We study the use of sampling for efficiently mining the top-K frequent
itemsets of cardinality at most w. To this purpose, we define an approximation
to the top-K frequent itemsets to be a family of itemsets which includes
(resp., excludes) all very frequent (resp., very infrequent) itemsets, together
with an estimate of these itemsets' frequencies with a bounded error. Our first
result is an upper bound on the sample size which guarantees that the top-K
frequent itemsets mined from a random sample of that size approximate the
actual top-K frequent itemsets, with probability larger than a specified value.
We show that the upper bound is asymptotically tight when w is constant. Our
main algorithmic contribution is a progressive sampling approach, combined with
suitable stopping conditions, which on appropriate inputs is able to extract
approximate top-K frequent itemsets from samples whose sizes are smaller than
the general upper bound. In order to test the stopping conditions, this
approach maintains the frequency of all itemsets encountered, which is
practical only for small w. However, we show how this problem can be mitigated
by using a variation of Bloom filters. A number of experiments conducted on
both synthetic and real bench- mark datasets show that using samples
substantially smaller than the original dataset (i.e., of size defined by the
upper bound or reached through the progressive sampling approach) enable to
approximate the actual top-K frequent itemsets with accuracy much higher than
what analytically proved.


Infectious Random Walks

  We study the dynamics of information (or virus) dissemination by $m$ mobile
agents performing independent random walks on an $n$-node grid. We formulate
our results in terms of two scenarios: broadcasting and gossiping. In the
broadcasting scenario, the mobile agents are initially placed uniformly at
random among the grid nodes. At time 0, one agent is informed of a rumor and
starts a random walk. When an informed agent meets an uninformed agent, the
latter becomes informed and starts a new random walk. We study the broadcasting
time of the system, that is, the time it takes for all agents to know the
rumor. In the gossiping scenario, each agent is given a distinct rumor at time
0 and all agents start random walks. When two agents meet, they share all
rumors they are aware of. We study the gossiping time of the system, that is,
the time it takes for all agents to know all rumors. We prove that both the
broadcasting and the gossiping times are $\tilde\Theta(n/\sqrt{m})$ w.h.p.,
thus achieving a tight characterization up to logarithmic factors. Previous
results for the grid provided bounds which were weaker and only concerned
average times. In the context of virus infection, a corollary of our results is
that static and dynamically moving agents are infected at about the same speed.


Fast Distributed PageRank Computation

  Over the last decade, PageRank has gained importance in a wide range of
applications and domains, ever since it first proved to be effective in
determining node importance in large graphs (and was a pioneering idea behind
Google's search engine). In distributed computing alone, PageRank vector, or
more generally random walk based quantities have been used for several
different applications ranging from determining important nodes, load
balancing, search, and identifying connectivity structures. Surprisingly,
however, there has been little work towards designing provably efficient
fully-distributed algorithms for computing PageRank. The difficulty is that
traditional matrix-vector multiplication style iterative methods may not always
adapt well to the distributed setting owing to communication bandwidth
restrictions and convergence rates.
  In this paper, we present fast random walk-based distributed algorithms for
computing PageRanks in general graphs and prove strong bounds on the round
complexity. We first present a distributed algorithm that takes $O\big(\log
n/\eps \big)$ rounds with high probability on any graph (directed or
undirected), where $n$ is the network size and $\eps$ is the reset probability
used in the PageRank computation (typically $\eps$ is a fixed constant). We
then present a faster algorithm that takes $O\big(\sqrt{\log n}/\eps \big)$
rounds in undirected graphs. Both of the above algorithms are scalable, as each
node sends only small ($\polylog n$) number of bits over each edge per round.
To the best of our knowledge, these are the first fully distributed algorithms
for computing PageRank vector with provably efficient running time.


Wiggins: Detecting Valuable Information in Dynamic Networks Using
  Limited Resources

  Detecting new information and events in a dynamic network by probing
individual nodes has many practical applications: discovering new webpages,
analyzing influence properties in network, and detecting failure propagation in
electronic circuits or infections in public drinkable water systems. In
practice, it is infeasible for anyone but the owner of the network (if
existent) to monitor all nodes at all times. In this work we study the
constrained setting when the observer can only probe a small set of nodes at
each time step to check whether new pieces of information (items) have reached
those nodes.
  We formally define the problem through an infinite time generating process
that places new items in subsets of nodes according to an unknown probability
distribution. Items have an exponentially decaying novelty, modeling their
decreasing value. The observer uses a probing schedule (i.e., a probability
distribution over the set of nodes) to choose, at each time step, a small set
of nodes to check for new items. The goal is to compute a schedule that
minimizes the average novelty of undetected items. We present an algorithm,
WIGGINS, to compute the optimal schedule through convex optimization, and then
show how it can be adapted when the parameters of the problem must be learned
or change over time. We also present a scalable variant of WIGGINS for the
MapReduce framework. The results of our experimental evaluation on real social
networks demonstrate the practicality of our approach.


Accurate Computation of Survival Statistics in Genome-wide Studies

  A key challenge in genomics is to identify genetic variants that distinguish
patients with different survival time following diagnosis or treatment. While
the log-rank test is widely used for this purpose, nearly all implementations
of the log-rank test rely on an asymptotic approximation that is not
appropriate in many genomics applications. This is because: the two populations
determined by a genetic variant may have very different sizes; and the
evaluation of many possible variants demands highly accurate computation of
very small p-values. We demonstrate this problem for cancer genomics data where
the standard log-rank test leads to many false positive associations between
somatic mutations and survival time. We develop and analyze a novel algorithm,
Exact Log-rank Test (ExaLT), that accurately computes the p-value of the
log-rank statistic under an exact distribution that is appropriate for any size
populations. We demonstrate the advantages of ExaLT on data from published
cancer genomics studies, finding significant differences from the reported
p-values. We analyze somatic mutations in six cancer types from The Cancer
Genome Atlas (TCGA), finding mutations with known association to survival as
well as several novel associations. In contrast, standard implementations of
the log-rank test report dozens-hundreds of likely false positive associations
as more significant than these known associations.


Space and Time Efficient Parallel Graph Decomposition, Clustering, and
  Diameter Approximation

  We develop a novel parallel decomposition strategy for unweighted, undirected
graphs, based on growing disjoint connected clusters from batches of centers
progressively selected from yet uncovered nodes. With respect to similar
previous decompositions, our strategy exercises a tighter control on both the
number of clusters and their maximum radius.
  We present two important applications of our parallel graph decomposition:
(1) $k$-center clustering approximation; and (2) diameter approximation. In
both cases, we obtain algorithms which feature a polylogarithmic approximation
factor and are amenable to a distributed implementation that is geared for
massive (long-diameter) graphs. The total space needed for the computation is
linear in the problem size, and the parallel depth is substantially sublinear
in the diameter for graphs with low doubling dimension. To the best of our
knowledge, ours are the first parallel approximations for these problems which
achieve sub-diameter parallel time, for a relevant class of graphs, using only
linear space. Besides the theoretical guarantees, our algorithms allow for a
very simple implementation on clustered architectures: we report on extensive
experiments which demonstrate their effectiveness and efficiency on large
graphs as compared to alternative known approaches.


MapReduce and Streaming Algorithms for Diversity Maximization in Metric
  Spaces of Bounded Doubling Dimension

  Given a dataset of points in a metric space and an integer $k$, a diversity
maximization problem requires determining a subset of $k$ points maximizing
some diversity objective measure, e.g., the minimum or the average distance
between two points in the subset. Diversity maximization is computationally
hard, hence only approximate solutions can be hoped for. Although its
applications are mainly in massive data analysis, most of the past research on
diversity maximization focused on the sequential setting. In this work we
present space and pass/round-efficient diversity maximization algorithms for
the Streaming and MapReduce models and analyze their approximation guarantees
for the relevant class of metric spaces of bounded doubling dimension. Like
other approaches in the literature, our algorithms rely on the determination of
high-quality core-sets, i.e., (much) smaller subsets of the input which contain
good approximations to the optimal solution for the whole input. For a variety
of diversity objective functions, our algorithms attain an
$(\alpha+\epsilon)$-approximation ratio, for any constant $\epsilon>0$, where
$\alpha$ is the best approximation ratio achieved by a polynomial-time,
linear-space sequential algorithm for the same diversity objective. This
improves substantially over the approximation ratios attainable in Streaming
and MapReduce by state-of-the-art algorithms for general metric spaces. We
provide extensive experimental evidence of the effectiveness of our algorithms
on both real world and synthetic datasets, scaling up to over a billion points.


Scalable Betweenness Centrality Maximization via Sampling

  Betweenness centrality is a fundamental centrality measure in social network
analysis. Given a large-scale network, how can we find the most central nodes?
This question is of key importance to numerous important applications that rely
on betweenness centrality, including community detection and understanding
graph vulnerability. Despite the large amount of work on designing scalable
approximation algorithms for betweenness centrality, estimating it on
large-scale networks remains a computational challenge.
  In this paper, we study the Betweenness Centrality Maximization problem:
given a graph $G=(V,E)$ and a positive integer $k$, find a set $S^* \subseteq
V$ that maximizes betweenness centrality subject to the cardinality constraint
$|S^*| \leq k$. We present an efficient randomized algorithm that provides a
$(1-1/e-\epsilon)$-approximation with high probability, where $\epsilon>0$. Our
results improve the current state-of-the-art result by
Yoshida~\cite{yoshida2014almost}. Furthermore, we provide theoretical evidence
for the validity of a crucial assumption in the literature of betweenness
centrality estimation, namely that in real-world networks $O(|V|^2)$ shortest
paths pass through the top-$k$ central nodes, where $k$ is a constant. On the
experimental side, we perform an extensive experimental analysis of our method
on real-world networks, demonstrate its accuracy and scalability, and study
different properties of central nodes. Finally, we provide three graph mining
applications of our method.


Tiered Sampling: An Efficient Method for Approximate Counting Sparse
  Motifs in Massive Graph Streams

  We introduce Tiered Sampling, a novel technique for approximate counting
sparse motifs in massive graphs whose edges are observed in a stream. Our
technique requires only a single pass on the data and uses a memory of fixed
size $M$, which can be magnitudes smaller than the number of edges.
  Our methods addresses the challenging task of counting sparse motifs -
sub-graph patterns that have low probability to appear in a sample of $M$ edges
in the graph, which is the maximum amount of data available to the algorithms
in each step. To obtain an unbiased and low variance estimate of the count we
partition the available memory to tiers (layers) of reservoir samples. While
the base layer is a standard reservoir sample of edges, other layers are
reservoir samples of sub-structures of the desired motif. By storing more
frequent sub-structures of the motif, we increase the probability of detecting
an occurrence of the sparse motif we are counting, thus decreasing the variance
and error of the estimate.
  We demonstrate the advantage of our method in the specific applications of
counting sparse 4 and 5-cliques in massive graphs. We present a complete
analytical analysis and extensive experimental results using both synthetic and
real-world data. Our results demonstrate the advantage of our method in
obtaining high-quality approximations for the number of 4 and 5-cliques for
large graphs using a very limited amount of memory, significantly outperforming
the single edge sample approach for counting sparse motifs in large scale
graphs.


Tight Bounds on Information Dissemination in Sparse Mobile Networks

  Motivated by the growing interest in mobile systems, we study the dynamics of
information dissemination between agents moving independently on a plane.
Formally, we consider $k$ mobile agents performing independent random walks on
an $n$-node grid. At time $0$, each agent is located at a random node of the
grid and one agent has a rumor. The spread of the rumor is governed by a
dynamic communication graph process ${G_t(r) | t \geq 0}$, where two agents are
connected by an edge in $G_t(r)$ iff their distance at time $t$ is within their
transmission radius $r$. Modeling the physical reality that the speed of radio
transmission is much faster than the motion of the agents, we assume that the
rumor can travel throughout a connected component of $G_t$ before the graph is
altered by the motion. We study the broadcast time $T_B$ of the system, which
is the time it takes for all agents to know the rumor. We focus on the sparse
case (below the percolation point $r_c \approx \sqrt{n/k}$) where, with high
probability, no connected component in $G_t$ has more than a logarithmic number
of agents and the broadcast time is dominated by the time it takes for many
independent random walks to meet each other. Quite surprisingly, we show that
for a system below the percolation point the broadcast time does not depend on
the relation between the mobility speed and the transmission radius. In fact,
we prove that $T_B = \tilde{O}(n / \sqrt{k})$ for any $0 \leq r < r_c$, even
when the transmission range is significantly larger than the mobility range in
one step, giving a tight characterization up to logarithmic factors. Our result
complements a recent result of Peres et al. (SODA 2011) who showed that above
the percolation point the broadcast time is polylogarithmic in $k$.


The VC-Dimension of Queries and Selectivity Estimation Through Sampling

  We develop a novel method, based on the statistical concept of the
Vapnik-Chervonenkis dimension, to evaluate the selectivity (output cardinality)
of SQL queries - a crucial step in optimizing the execution of large scale
database and data-mining operations. The major theoretical contribution of this
work, which is of independent interest, is an explicit bound to the
VC-dimension of a range space defined by all possible outcomes of a collection
(class) of queries. We prove that the VC-dimension is a function of the maximum
number of Boolean operations in the selection predicate and of the maximum
number of select and join operations in any individual query in the collection,
but it is neither a function of the number of queries in the collection nor of
the size (number of tuples) of the database. We leverage on this result and
develop a method that, given a class of queries, builds a concise random sample
of a database, such that with high probability the execution of any query in
the class on the sample provides an accurate estimate for the selectivity of
the query on the original large database. The error probability holds
simultaneously for the selectivity estimates of all queries in the collection,
thus the same sample can be used to evaluate the selectivity of multiple
queries, and the sample needs to be refreshed only following major changes in
the database. The sample representation computed by our method is typically
sufficiently small to be stored in main memory. We present extensive
experimental results, validating our theoretical analysis and demonstrating the
advantage of our technique when compared to complex selectivity estimation
techniques used in PostgreSQL and the Microsoft SQL Server.


Distributed Agreement in Dynamic Peer-to-Peer Networks

  Motivated by the need for robust and fast distributed computation in highly
dynamic Peer-to-Peer (P2P) networks, we study algorithms for the fundamental
distributed agreement problem. P2P networks are highly dynamic networks that
experience heavy node {\em churn}. Our goal is to design fast algorithms
(running in a small number of rounds) that guarantee, despite high node churn
rate, that almost all nodes reach a stable agreement. Our main contributions
are randomized distributed algorithms that guarantee {\em stable
almost-everywhere agreement} with high probability even under high adversarial
churn in a polylogarithmic number of rounds:
  1. An $O(\log^2 n)$-round ($n$ is the stable network size) randomized
algorithm that achieves almost-everywhere agreement with high probability under
up to {\em linear} churn {\em per round} (i.e., $\epsilon n$, for some small
constant $\epsilon > 0$), assuming that the churn is controlled by an oblivious
adversary (that has complete knowledge and control of what nodes join and leave
and at what time and has unlimited computational power, but is oblivious to the
random choices made by the algorithm). Our algorithm requires only
polylogarithmic in $n$ bits to be processed and sent (per round) by each node.
  2. An $O(\log m\log^3 n)$-round randomized algorithm that achieves
almost-everywhere agreement with high probability under up to $\epsilon
\sqrt{n}$ churn per round (for some small $\epsilon > 0$), where $m$ is the
size of the input value domain, that works even under an adaptive adversary
(that also knows the past random choices made by the algorithm). This algorithm
requires up to polynomial in $n$ bits (and up to $O(\log m)$ bits) to be
processed and sent (per round) by each node.


Efficient Discovery of Association Rules and Frequent Itemsets through
  Sampling with Tight Performance Guarantees

  The tasks of extracting (top-$K$) Frequent Itemsets (FI's) and Association
Rules (AR's) are fundamental primitives in data mining and database
applications. Exact algorithms for these problems exist and are widely used,
but their running time is hindered by the need of scanning the entire dataset,
possibly multiple times. High quality approximations of FI's and AR's are
sufficient for most practical uses, and a number of recent works explored the
application of sampling for fast discovery of approximate solutions to the
problems. However, these works do not provide satisfactory performance
guarantees on the quality of the approximation, due to the difficulty of
bounding the probability of under- or over-sampling any one of an unknown
number of frequent itemsets. In this work we circumvent this issue by applying
the statistical concept of \emph{Vapnik-Chervonenkis (VC) dimension} to develop
a novel technique for providing tight bounds on the sample size that guarantees
approximation within user-specified parameters. Our technique applies both to
absolute and to relative approximations of (top-$K$) FI's and AR's. The
resulting sample size is linearly dependent on the VC-dimension of a range
space associated with the dataset to be mined. The main theoretical
contribution of this work is a proof that the VC-dimension of this range space
is upper bounded by an easy-to-compute characteristic quantity of the dataset
which we call \emph{d-index}, and is the maximum integer $d$ such that the
dataset contains at least $d$ transactions of length at least $d$ such that no
one of them is a superset of or equal to another. We show that this bound is
strict for a large class of datasets.


Balanced Allocation: Patience is not a Virtue

  Load balancing is a well-studied problem, with balls-in-bins being the
primary framework. The greedy algorithm $\mathsf{Greedy}[d]$ of Azar et al.
places each ball by probing $d > 1$ random bins and placing the ball in the
least loaded of them. With high probability, the maximum load under
$\mathsf{Greedy}[d]$ is exponentially lower than the result when balls are
placed uniformly randomly. V\"ocking showed that a slightly asymmetric variant,
$\mathsf{Left}[d]$, provides a further significant improvement. However, this
improvement comes at an additional computational cost of imposing structure on
the bins.
  Here, we present a fully decentralized and easy-to-implement algorithm called
$\mathsf{FirstDiff}[d]$ that combines the simplicity of $\mathsf{Greedy}[d]$
and the improved balance of $\mathsf{Left}[d]$. The key idea in
$\mathsf{FirstDiff}[d]$ is to probe until a different bin size from the first
observation is located, then place the ball. Although the number of probes
could be quite large for some of the balls, we show that
$\mathsf{FirstDiff}[d]$ requires only at most $d$ probes on average per ball
(in both the standard and the heavily-loaded settings). Thus the number of
probes is no greater than either that of $\mathsf{Greedy}[d]$ or
$\mathsf{Left}[d]$. More importantly, we show that $\mathsf{FirstDiff}[d]$
closely matches the improved maximum load ensured by $\mathsf{Left}[d]$ in both
the standard and heavily-loaded settings. We further provide a tight lower
bound on the maximum load up to $O(\log \log \log n)$ terms. We additionally
give experimental data that $\mathsf{FirstDiff}[d]$ is indeed as good as
$\mathsf{Left}[d]$, if not better, in practice.


Storage and Search in Dynamic Peer-to-Peer Networks

  We study robust and efficient distributed algorithms for searching, storing,
and maintaining data in dynamic Peer-to-Peer (P2P) networks. P2P networks are
highly dynamic networks that experience heavy node churn (i.e., nodes join and
leave the network continuously over time). Our goal is to guarantee, despite
high node churn rate, that a large number of nodes in the network can store,
retrieve, and maintain a large number of data items. Our main contributions are
fast randomized distributed algorithms that guarantee the above with high
probability (whp) even under high adversarial churn:
  1. A randomized distributed search algorithm that (whp) guarantees that
searches from as many as $n - o(n)$ nodes ($n$ is the stable network size)
succeed in ${O}(\log n)$-rounds despite ${O}(n/\log^{1+\delta} n)$ churn, for
any small constant $\delta > 0$, per round. We assume that the churn is
controlled by an oblivious adversary (that has complete knowledge and control
of what nodes join and leave and at what time, but is oblivious to the random
choices made by the algorithm).
  2. A storage and maintenance algorithm that guarantees (whp) data items can
be efficiently stored (with only $\Theta(\log{n})$ copies of each data item)
and maintained in a dynamic P2P network with churn rate up to
${O}(n/\log^{1+\delta} n)$ per round. Our search algorithm together with our
storage and maintenance algorithm guarantees that as many as $n - o(n)$ nodes
can efficiently store, maintain, and search even under ${O}(n/\log^{1+\delta}
n)$ churn per round. Our algorithms require only polylogarithmic in $n$ bits to
be processed and sent (per round) by each node.
  To the best of our knowledge, our algorithms are the first-known,
fully-distributed storage and search algorithms that provably work under highly
dynamic settings (i.e., high churn rates per step).


Machine Learning in High Energy Physics Community White Paper

  Machine learning is an important research area in particle physics, beginning
with applications to high-level physics analysis in the 1990s and 2000s,
followed by an explosion of applications in particle and event identification
and reconstruction in the 2010s. In this document we discuss promising future
research and development areas in machine learning in particle physics with a
roadmap for their implementation, software and hardware resource requirements,
collaborative initiatives with the data science community, academia and
industry, and training the particle physics community in data science. The main
objective of the document is to connect and motivate these areas of research
and development with the physics drivers of the High-Luminosity Large Hadron
Collider and future neutrino experiments and identify the resource needs for
their implementation. Additionally we identify areas where collaboration with
external communities will be of great benefit.


