A General Algorithm for Deciding Transportability of Experimental
  Results

  Generalizing empirical findings to new environments, settings, or populations
is essential in most scientific explorations. This article treats a particular
problem of generalizability, called "transportability", defined as a license to
transfer information learned in experimental studies to a different population,
on which only observational studies can be conducted. Given a set of
assumptions concerning commonalities and differences between the two
populations, Pearl and Bareinboim (2011) derived sufficient conditions that
permit such transfer to take place. This article summarizes their findings and
supplements them with an effective procedure for deciding when and how
transportability is feasible. It establishes a necessary and sufficient
condition for deciding when causal effects in the target population are
estimable from both the statistical information available and the causal
information transferred from the experiments. The article further provides a
complete algorithm for computing the transport formula, that is, a way of
combining observational and experimental information to synthesize bias-free
estimate of the desired causal relation. Finally, the article examines the
differences between transportability and other variants of generalizability.


Causal Inference by Surrogate Experiments: z-Identifiability

  We address the problem of estimating the effect of intervening on a set of
variables X from experiments on a different set, Z, that is more accessible to
manipulation. This problem, which we call z-identifiability, reduces to
ordinary identifiability when Z = empty and, like the latter, can be given
syntactic characterization using the do-calculus [Pearl, 1995; 2000]. We
provide a graphical necessary and sufficient condition for z-identifiability
for arbitrary sets X,Z, and Y (the outcomes). We further develop a complete
algorithm for computing the causal effect of X on Y using information provided
by experiments on Z. Finally, we use our results to prove completeness of
do-calculus relative to z-identifiability, a result that does not follow from
completeness relative to ordinary identifiability.


Descents and nodal load in scale-free networks

  The load of a node in a network is the total traffic going through it when
every node pair sustains a uniform bidirectional traffic between them on
shortest paths. We show that nodal load can be expressed in terms of the more
elementary notion of a node's descents in breadth-first-search (BFS or
shortest-path) trees, and study both the descent and nodal-load distributions
in the case of scale-free networks. Our treatment is both semi-analytical
(combining a generating-function formalism with simulation-derived BFS
branching probabilities) and computational for the descent distribution; it is
exclusively computational in the case of the load distribution. Our main result
is that the load distribution, even though it can be disguised as a power-law
through subtle (but inappropriate) binning of the raw data, is in fact a
succession of sharply delineated probability peaks, each of which can be
clearly interpreted as a function of the underlying BFS descents. This find is
in stark contrast with previously held belief, based on which a power law of
exponent -2.2 was conjectured to be valid regardless of the exponent of the
power-law distribution of node degrees.


External Validity: From Do-Calculus to Transportability Across
  Populations

  The generalizability of empirical findings to new environments, settings or
populations, often called "external validity," is essential in most scientific
explorations. This paper treats a particular problem of generalizability,
called "transportability," defined as a license to transfer causal effects
learned in experimental studies to a new population, in which only
observational studies can be conducted. We introduce a formal representation
called "selection diagrams" for expressing knowledge about differences and
commonalities between populations of interest and, using this representation,
we reduce questions of transportability to symbolic derivations in the
do-calculus. This reduction yields graph-based procedures for deciding, prior
to observing any data, whether causal effects in the target population can be
inferred from experimental findings in the study population. When the answer is
affirmative, the procedures identify what experimental and observational
findings need be obtained from the two populations, and how they can be
combined to ensure bias-free transport.


Incorporating Knowledge into Structural Equation Models using Auxiliary
  Variables

  In this paper, we extend graph-based identification methods by allowing
background knowledge in the form of non-zero parameter values. Such information
could be obtained, for example, from a previously conducted randomized
experiment, from substantive understanding of the domain, or even an
identification technique. To incorporate such information systematically, we
propose the addition of auxiliary variables to the model, which are constructed
so that certain paths will be conveniently cancelled. This cancellation allows
the auxiliary variables to help conventional methods of identification (e.g.,
single-door criterion, instrumental variables, half-trek criterion), as well as
model testing (e.g., d-separation, over-identification). Moreover, by
iteratively alternating steps of identification and adding auxiliary variables,
we can improve the power of existing identification methods via a bootstrapping
approach that does not require external knowledge. We operationalize this
method for simple instrumental sets (a generalization of instrumental
variables) and show that the resulting method is able to identify at least as
many models as the most general identification method for linear systems known
to date. We further discuss the application of auxiliary variables to the tasks
of model testing and z-identification.


Identification and Model Testing in Linear Structural Equation Models
  using Auxiliary Variables

  We developed a novel approach to identification and model testing in linear
structural equation models (SEMs) based on auxiliary variables (AVs), which
generalizes a widely-used family of methods known as instrumental variables.
The identification problem is concerned with the conditions under which causal
parameters can be uniquely estimated from an observational, non-causal
covariance matrix. In this paper, we provide an algorithm for the
identification of causal parameters in linear structural models that subsumes
previous state-of-the-art methods. In other words, our algorithm identifies
strictly more coefficients and models than methods previously known in the
literature. Our algorithm builds on a graph-theoretic characterization of
conditional independence relations between auxiliary and model variables, which
is developed in this paper. Further, we leverage this new characterization for
allowing identification when limited experimental data or new substantive
knowledge about the domain is available. Lastly, we develop a new procedure for
model testing using AVs.


Budgeted Experiment Design for Causal Structure Learning

  We study the problem of causal structure learning when the experimenter is
limited to perform at most $k$ non-adaptive experiments of size $1$. We
formulate the problem of finding the best intervention target set as an
optimization problem, which aims to maximize the average number of edges whose
directions are resolved. We prove that the corresponding objective function is
submodular and a greedy algorithm suffices to achieve
$(1-\frac{1}{e})$-approximation of the optimal value. We further present an
accelerated variant of the greedy algorithm, which can lead to orders of
magnitude performance speedup. We validate our proposed approach on synthetic
and real graphs. The results show that compared to the purely observational
setting, our algorithm orients the majority of the edges through a considerably
small number of interventions.


Causal Identification under Markov Equivalence

  Assessing the magnitude of cause-and-effect relations is one of the central
challenges found throughout the empirical sciences. The problem of
identification of causal effects is concerned with determining whether a causal
effect can be computed from a combination of observational data and substantive
knowledge about the domain under investigation, which is formally expressed in
the form of a causal graph. In many practical settings, however, the knowledge
available for the researcher is not strong enough so as to specify a unique
causal graph. Another line of investigation attempts to use observational data
to learn a qualitative description of the domain called a Markov equivalence
class, which is the collection of causal graphs that share the same set of
observed features. In this paper, we marry both approaches and study the
problem of causal identification from an equivalence class, represented by a
partial ancestral graph (PAG). We start by deriving a set of graphical
properties of PAGs that are carried over to its induced subgraphs. We then
develop an algorithm to compute the effect of an arbitrary set of variables on
an arbitrary outcome set. We show that the algorithm is strictly more powerful
than the current state of the art found in the literature.


