Contribution Games in Social Networks

  We consider network contribution games, where each agent in a social network
has a budget of effort that he can contribute to different collaborative
projects or relationships. Depending on the contribution of the involved agents
a relationship will flourish or drown, and to measure the success we use a
reward function for each relationship. Every agent is trying to maximize the
reward from all relationships that it is involved in. We consider pairwise
equilibria of this game, and characterize the existence, computational
complexity, and quality of equilibrium based on the types of reward functions
involved. For example, when all reward functions are concave, we prove that the
price of anarchy is at most 2. For convex functions the same only holds under
some special but very natural conditions. A special focus of the paper are
minimum effort games, where the reward of a relationship depends only on the
minimum effort of any of the participants. Finally, we show tight bounds for
approximate equilibria and convergence of dynamics in these games.


Randomized Social Choice Functions Under Metric Preferences

  We determine the quality of randomized social choice mechanisms in a setting
in which the agents have metric preferences: every agent has a cost for each
alternative, and these costs form a metric. We assume that these costs are
unknown to the mechanisms (and possibly even to the agents themselves), which
means we cannot simply select the optimal alternative, i.e. the alternative
that minimizes the total agent cost (or median agent cost). However, we do
assume that the agents know their ordinal preferences that are induced by the
metric space. We examine randomized social choice functions that require only
this ordinal information and select an alternative that is good in expectation
with respect to the costs from the metric. To quantify how good a randomized
social choice function is, we bound the distortion, which is the worst-case
ratio between expected cost of the alternative selected and the cost of the
optimal alternative. We provide new distortion bounds for a variety of
randomized mechanisms, for both general metrics and for important special
cases. Our results show a sizable improvement in distortion over deterministic
mechanisms.


Friendship, Altruism, and Reward Sharing in Stable Matching and
  Contribution Games

  We study stable matching problems in networks where players are embedded in a
social context, and may incorporate friendship relations or altruism into their
decisions. Each player is a node in a social network and strives to form a good
match with a neighboring player. We consider the existence, computation, and
inefficiency of stable matchings from which no pair of players wants to
deviate. When the benefits from a match are the same for both players, we show
that incorporating the well-being of other players into their matching
decisions significantly decreases the price of stability, while the price of
anarchy remains unaffected. Furthermore, a good stable matching achieving the
price of stability bound always exists and can be reached in polynomial time.
We extend these results to more general matching rewards, when players matched
to each other may receive different utilities from the match. For this more
general case, we show that incorporating social context (i.e., "caring about
your friends") can make an even larger difference, and greatly reduce the price
of anarchy. We show a variety of existence results, and present upper and lower
bounds on the prices of anarchy and stability for various matching utility
structures. Finally, we extend most of our results to network contribution
games, in which players can decide how much effort to contribute to each
incident edge, instead of simply choosing a single node to match with.


Envy-Free Pricing in Large Markets: Approximating Revenue and Welfare

  We study the classic setting of envy-free pricing, in which a single seller
chooses prices for its many items, with the goal of maximizing revenue once the
items are allocated. Despite the large body of work addressing such settings,
most versions of this problem have resisted good approximation factors for
maximizing revenue; this is true even for the classic unit-demand case. In this
paper we study envy-free pricing with unit-demand buyers, but unlike previous
work we focus on large markets: ones in which the demand of each buyer is
infinitesimally small compared to the size of the overall market. We assume
that the buyer valuations for the items they desire have a nice (although
reasonable) structure, i.e., that the aggregate buyer demand has a monotone
hazard rate and that the values of every buyer type come from the same support.
  For such large markets, our main contribution is a 1.88 approximation
algorithm for maximizing revenue, showing that good pricing schemes can be
computed when the number of buyers is large. We also give a (e,2)-bicriteria
algorithm that simultaneously approximates both maximum revenue and welfare,
thus showing that it is possible to obtain both good revenue and welfare at the
same time. We further generalize our results by relaxing some of our
assumptions, and quantify the necessary tradeoffs between revenue and welfare
in our setting. Our results are the first known approximations for large
markets, and crucially rely on new lower bounds which we prove for the
revenue-maximizing prices.


Price Doubling and Item Halving: Robust Revenue Guarantees for Item
  Pricing

  We study approximation algorithms for revenue maximization based on static
item pricing, where a seller chooses prices for various goods in the market,
and then the buyers purchase utility-maximizing bundles at these given prices.
We formulate two somewhat general techniques for designing good pricing
algorithms for this setting: Price Doubling and Item Halving. Using these
techniques, we unify many of the existing results in the item pricing
literature under a common framework, as well as provide several new item
pricing algorithms for approximating both revenue and social welfare. More
specifically, for a variety of settings with item pricing, we show that it is
possible to deterministically obtain a log-approximation for revenue and a
constant-approximation for social welfare simultaneously: thus one need not
sacrifice revenue if the goal is to still have decent welfare guarantees. %In
addition, we provide a new black-box reduction from revenue to welfare based on
item pricing, which immediately gives us new revenue-approximation algorithms
(e.g., for gross substitutes valuations).
  The main technical contribution of this paper is a $O((\log m + \log
k)^2)$-approximation algorithm for revenue maximization based on the Item
Halving technique, for settings where buyers have XoS valuations, where $m$ is
the number of goods and $k$ is the average supply. Surprisingly, ours is the
first known item pricing algorithm with polylogarithmic approximations for such
general classes of valuations, and partially resolves an important open
question from the algorithmic pricing literature about the existence of item
pricing algorithms with logarithmic factors for general valuations. We also use
the Item Halving framework to form envy-free item pricing mechanisms for the
popular setting of multi-unit markets, providing a log-approximation to revenue
in this case.


A Stackelberg Strategy for Routing Flow over Time

  Routing games are used to to understand the impact of individual users'
decisions on network efficiency. Most prior work on routing games uses a
simplified model of network flow where all flow exists simultaneously, and
users care about either their maximum delay or their total delay. Both of these
measures are surrogates for measuring how long it takes to get all of a user's
traffic through the network. We attempt a more direct study of how competition
affects network efficiency by examining routing games in a flow over time
model. We give an efficiently computable Stackelberg strategy for this model
and show that the competitive equilibrium under this strategy is no worse than
a small constant times the optimal, for two natural measures of optimality.


Seeding Influential Nodes in Non-Submodular Models of Information
  Diffusion

  We consider the model of information diffusion in social networks from
\cite{Hui2010a} which incorporates trust (weighted links) between actors, and
allows actors to actively participate in the spreading process, specifically
through the ability to query friends for additional information. This model
captures how social agents transmit and act upon information more realistically
as compared to the simpler threshold and cascade models. However, it is more
difficult to analyze, in particular with respect to seeding strategies. We
present efficient, scalable algorithms for determining good seed sets --
initial nodes to inject with the information. Our general approach is to reduce
our model to a class of simpler models for which provably good sets can be
constructed. By tuning this class of simpler models, we obtain a good seed set
for the original more complex model. We call this the \emph{projected greedy
approach} because you `project' your model onto a class of simpler models where
a greedy seed set selection is near-optimal. We demonstrate the effectiveness
of our seeding strategy on synthetic graphs as well as a realistic San Diego
evacuation network constructed during the 2007 fires.


Assignment Games with Conflicts: Price of Total Anarchy and Convergence
  Results via Semi-Smoothness

  We study assignment games in which jobs select machines, and in which certain
pairs of jobs may conflict, which is to say they may incur an additional cost
when they are both assigned to the same machine, beyond that associated with
the increase in load. Questions regarding such interactions apply beyond
allocating jobs to machines: when people in a social network choose to align
themselves with a group or party, they typically do so based upon not only the
inherent quality of that group, but also who amongst their friends (or enemies)
choose that group as well. We show how semi-smoothness, a recently introduced
generalization of smoothness, is necessary to find tight or near-tight bounds
on the price of total anarchy, and thus on the quality of correlated and Nash
equilibria, for several natural job-assignment games with interacting jobs. For
most cases, our bounds on the price of total anarchy are either exactly 2 or
approach 2. We also prove new convergence results implied by semi-smoothness
for our games. Finally we consider coalitional deviations, and prove results
about the existence and quality of Strong equilibrium.


Pricing to Maximize Revenue and Welfare Simultaneously in Large Markets

  We study large markets with a single seller which can produce many types of
goods, and many multi-minded buyers. The seller chooses posted prices for its
many items, and the buyers purchase bundles to maximize their utility. For this
setting, we consider the following questions: What fraction of the optimum
social welfare does a revenue maximizing solution achieve? Are there pricing
mechanisms which achieve both good revenue and good welfare simultaneously? To
address these questions, we give efficient pricing schemes which are guaranteed
to result in both good revenue and welfare, as long as the buyer valuations for
the goods they desire have a nice (although reasonable) structure, e.g., that
the aggregate buyer demand has a monotone hazard rate or is not too convex. We
also show that our pricing schemes have implications for any pricing which
achieves high revenue: specifically that even if the seller cares only about
revenue, they can still ensure that their prices result in good social welfare
without sacrificing profit. Our results holds for general multi-minded buyers
in large markets; we also provide improved guarantees for the important special
case of unit-demand buyers.


Tradeoffs Between Information and Ordinal Approximation for Bipartite
  Matching

  We study ordinal approximation algorithms for maximum-weight bipartite
matchings. Such algorithms only know the ordinal preferences of the
agents/nodes in the graph for their preferred matches, but must compete with
fully omniscient algorithms which know the true numerical edge weights
(utilities). %instead of only their relative orderings. Ordinal approximation
is all about being able to produce good results with only limited information.
Because of this, one important question is how much better the algorithms can
be as the amount of information increases. To address this question for forming
high-utility matchings between agents in $\mathcal{X}$ and $\mathcal{Y}$, we
consider three ordinal information types: when we know the preference order of
only nodes in $\mathcal{X}$ for nodes in $\mathcal{Y}$, when we know the
preferences of both $\mathcal{X}$ and $\mathcal{Y}$, and when we know the total
order of the edge weights in the entire graph, although not the weights
themselves. We also consider settings where only the top preferences of the
agents are known to us, instead of their full preference orderings. We design
new ordinal approximation algorithms for each of these settings, and quantify
how well such algorithms perform as the amount of information given to them
increases.


Approximate Equilibrium and Incentivizing Social Coordination

  We study techniques to incentivize self-interested agents to form socially
desirable solutions in scenarios where they benefit from mutual coordination.
Towards this end, we consider coordination games where agents have different
intrinsic preferences but they stand to gain if others choose the same strategy
as them. For non-trivial versions of our game, stable solutions like Nash
Equilibrium may not exist, or may be socially inefficient even when they do
exist. This motivates us to focus on designing efficient algorithms to compute
(almost) stable solutions like Approximate Equilibrium that can be realized if
agents are provided some additional incentives. Our results apply in many
settings like adoption of new products, project selection, and group formation,
where a central authority can direct agents towards a strategy but agents may
defect if they have better alternatives. We show that for any given instance,
we can either compute a high quality approximate equilibrium or a near-optimal
solution that can be stabilized by providing small payments to some players. We
then generalize our model to encompass situations where player relationships
may exhibit complementarities and present an algorithm to compute an
Approximate Equilibrium whose stability factor is linear in the degree of
complementarity. Our results imply that a little influence is necessary in
order to ensure that selfish players coordinate and form socially efficient
solutions.


Blind, Greedy, and Random: Ordinal Approximation Algorithms for Matching
  and Clustering

  We study Matching and other related problems in a partial information setting
where the agents' utilities for being matched to other agents are hidden and
the mechanism only has access to ordinal preference information. Our model is
motivated by the fact that in many settings, agents cannot express the
numerical values of their utility for different outcomes, but are still able to
rank the outcomes in their order of preference. Specifically, we study problems
where the ground truth exists in the form of a weighted graph, and look to
design algorithms that approximate the true optimum matching using only the
preference orderings for each agent (induced by the hidden weights) as input.
If no restrictions are placed on the weights, then one cannot hope to do better
than the simple greedy algorithm, which yields a half optimal matching. Perhaps
surprisingly, we show that by imposing a little structure on the weights, we
can improve upon the trivial algorithm significantly: we design a
1.6-approximation algorithm for instances where the hidden weights obey the
metric inequality. Using our algorithms for matching as a black-box, we also
design new approximation algorithms for other closely related problems: these
include a a 3.2-approximation for the problem of clustering agents into equal
sized partitions, a 4-approximation algorithm for Densest k-subgraph, and a
2.14-approximation algorithm for Max TSP. These results are the first
non-trivial ordinal approximation algorithms for such problems, and indicate
that we can design robust algorithms even when we are agnostic to the precise
agent utilities.


Computing Stable Coalitions: Approximation Algorithms for Reward Sharing

  Consider a setting where selfish agents are to be assigned to coalitions or
projects from a fixed set P. Each project k is characterized by a valuation
function; v_k(S) is the value generated by a set S of agents working on project
k. We study the following classic problem in this setting: "how should the
agents divide the value that they collectively create?". One traditional
approach in cooperative game theory is to study core stability with the
implicit assumption that there are infinite copies of one project, and agents
can partition themselves into any number of coalitions. In contrast, we
consider a model with a finite number of non-identical projects; this makes
computing both high-welfare solutions and core payments highly non-trivial.
  The main contribution of this paper is a black-box mechanism that reduces the
problem of computing a near-optimal core stable solution to the purely
algorithmic problem of welfare maximization; we apply this to compute an
approximately core stable solution that extracts one-fourth of the optimal
social welfare for the class of subadditive valuations. We also show much
stronger results for several popular sub-classes: anonymous, fractionally
subadditive, and submodular valuations, as well as provide new approximation
algorithms for welfare maximization with anonymous functions. Finally, we
establish a connection between our setting and the well-studied simultaneous
auctions with item bidding; we adapt our results to compute approximate pure
Nash equilibria for these auctions.


Truthful Mechanisms for Matching and Clustering in an Ordinal World

  We study truthful mechanisms for matching and related problems in a partial
information setting, where the agents' true utilities are hidden, and the
algorithm only has access to ordinal preference information. Our model is
motivated by the fact that in many settings, agents cannot express the
numerical values of their utility for different outcomes, but are still able to
rank the outcomes in their order of preference. Specifically, we study problems
where the ground truth exists in the form of a weighted graph of agent
utilities, but the algorithm can only elicit the agents' private information in
the form of a preference ordering for each agent induced by the underlying
weights. Against this backdrop, we design truthful algorithms to approximate
the true optimum solution with respect to the hidden weights. Our techniques
yield universally truthful algorithms for a number of graph problems: a
1.76-approximation algorithm for Max-Weight Matching, 2-approximation algorithm
for Max k-matching, a 6-approximation algorithm for Densest k-subgraph, and a
2-approximation algorithm for Max Traveling Salesman as long as the hidden
weights constitute a metric. We also provide improved approximation algorithms
for such problems when the agents are not able to lie about their preferences.
Our results are the first non-trivial truthful approximation algorithms for
these problems, and indicate that in many situations, we can design robust
algorithms even when the agents may lie and only provide ordinal information
instead of precise utilities.


Utilitarians Without Utilities: Maximizing Social Welfare for Graph
  Problems using only Ordinal Preferences - Full Version

  We consider ordinal approximation algorithms for a broad class of utility
maximization problems for multi-agent systems. In these problems, agents have
utilities for connecting to each other, and the goal is to compute a
maximum-utility solution subject to a set of constraints. We represent these as
a class of graph optimization problems, including matching, spanning tree
problems, TSP, maximum weight planar subgraph, and many others. We study these
problems in the ordinal setting: latent numerical utilities exist, but we only
have access to ordinal preference information, i.e., every agent specifies an
ordering over the other agents by preference. We prove that for the large class
of graph problems we identify, ordinal information is enough to compute
solutions which are close to optimal, thus demonstrating there is no need to
know the underlying numerical utilities. For example, for problems in this
class with bounded degree $b$ a simple ordinal greedy algorithm always produces
a ($b+1$)-approximation; we also quantify how the quality of ordinal
approximation depends on the sparsity of the resulting graphs. In particular,
our results imply that ordinal information is enough to obtain a
2-approximation for Maximum Spanning Tree; a 4-approximation for Max Weight
Planar Subgraph; a 2-approximation for Max-TSP; and a 2-approximation for
various Matching problems.


Ordinal Approximation for Social Choice, Matching, and Facility Location
  Problems given Candidate Positions

  In this work we consider general facility location and social choice
problems, in which sets of agents $\mathcal{A}$ and facilities $\mathcal{F}$
are located in a metric space, and our goal is to assign agents to facilities
(as well as choose which facilities to open) in order to optimize the social
cost. We form new algorithms to do this in the presence of only {\em ordinal
information}, i.e., when the true costs or distances from the agents to the
facilities are {\em unknown}, and only the ordinal preferences of the agents
for the facilities are available. The main difference between our work and
previous work in this area is that while we assume that only ordinal
information about agent preferences in known, we know the exact locations of
the possible facilities $\mathcal{F}$. Due to this extra information about the
facilities, we are able to form powerful algorithms which have small {\em
distortion}, i.e., perform almost as well as omniscient algorithms but use only
ordinal information about agent preferences. For example, we present natural
social choice mechanisms for choosing a single facility to open with distortion
of at most 3 for minimizing both the total and the median social cost; this
factor is provably the best possible. We analyze many general problems
including matching, $k$-center, and $k$-median, and present black-box
reductions from omniscient approximation algorithms with approximation factor
$\beta$ to ordinal algorithms with approximation factor $1+2\beta$; doing this
gives new ordinal algorithms for many important problems, and establishes a
toolkit for analyzing such problems in the future.


Price Competition in Networked Markets: How do monopolies impact social
  welfare?

  We study the efficiency of allocations in large markets with a network
structure where every seller owns an edge in a graph and every buyer desires a
path connecting some nodes. While it is known that stable allocations in such
settings can be very inefficient, the exact properties of equilibria in markets
with multiple sellers are not fully understood even in single-source
single-sink networks. In this work, we show that for a large class of natural
buyer demand functions, we are guaranteed the existence of an equilibrium with
several desirable properties. The crucial insight that we gain into the
equilibrium structure allows us to obtain tight bounds on efficiency in terms
of the various parameters governing the market, especially the number of
monopolies M. All of our efficiency results extend to markets without the
network structure.
  While it is known that monopolies can cause large inefficiencies in general,
our main results for single-source single-sink networks indicate that for
several natural demand functions the efficiency only drops linearly with M. For
example, for concave demand we prove that the efficiency loss is at most a
factor 1+M/2 from the optimum, for demand with monotone hazard rate it is at
most 1+M, and for polynomial demand the efficiency decreases logarithmically
with M. In contrast to previous work that showed that monopolies may adversely
affect welfare, our main contribution is showing that monopolies may not be as
`evil' as they are made out to be; the loss in efficiency is bounded in many
natural markets. Finally, we consider more general, multiple-source networks
and show that in the absence of monopolies, mild assumptions on the network
topology guarantee an equilibrium that maximizes social welfare.


