Winograd Schemas and Machine Translation

  A Winograd schema is a pair of sentences that differ in a single word and
that contain an ambiguous pronoun whose referent is different in the two
sentences and requires the use of commonsense knowledge or world knowledge to
disambiguate. This paper discusses how Winograd schemas and other sentence
pairs could be used as challenges for machine translation using distinctions
between pronouns, such as gender, that appear in the target language but not in
the source.


The Relevance of Proofs of the Rationality of Probability Theory to
  Automated Reasoning and Cognitive Models

  A number of well-known theorems, such as Cox's theorem and de Finetti's
theorem. prove that any model of reasoning with uncertain information that
satisfies specified conditions of "rationality" must satisfy the axioms of
probability theory. I argue here that these theorems do not in themselves
demonstrate that probabilistic models are in fact suitable for any specific
task in automated reasoning or plausible for cognitive models. First, the
theorems only establish that there exists some probabilistic model; they do not
establish that there exists a useful probabilistic model, i.e. one with a
tractably small number of numerical parameters and a large number of
independence assumptions. Second, there are in general many different
probabilistic models for a given situation, many of which may be far more
irrational, in the usual sense of the term, than a model that violates the
axioms of probability theory. I illustrate this second point with an extended
examples of two tasks of induction, of a similar structure, where the
reasonable probabilistic models are very different.


The Scope and Limits of Simulation in Cognitive Models

  It has been proposed that human physical reasoning consists largely of
running "physics engines in the head" in which the future trajectory of the
physical system under consideration is computed precisely using accurate
scientific theories. In such models, uncertainty and incomplete knowledge is
dealt with by sampling probabilistically over the space of possible
trajectories ("Monte Carlo simulation"). We argue that such simulation-based
models are too weak, in that there are many important aspects of human physical
reasoning that cannot be carried out this way, or can only be carried out very
inefficiently; and too strong, in that humans make large systematic errors that
the models cannot account for. We conclude that simulation-based reasoning
makes up at most a small part of a larger system that encompasses a wide range
of additional cognitive processes.


The Limitations of Standardized Science Tests as Benchmarks for
  Artificial Intelligence Research: Position Paper

  In this position paper, I argue that standardized tests for elementary
science such as SAT or Regents tests are not very good benchmarks for measuring
the progress of artificial intelligence systems in understanding basic science.
The primary problem is that these tests are designed to test aspects of
knowledge and ability that are challenging for people; the aspects that are
challenging for AI systems are very different. In particular, standardized
tests do not test knowledge that is obvious for people; none of this knowledge
can be assumed in AI systems. Individual standardized tests also have specific
features that are not necessarily appropriate for an AI benchmark. I analyze
the Physics subject SAT in some detail and the New York State Regents Science
test more briefly. I also argue that the apparent advantages offered by using
standardized tests are mostly either minor or illusory. The one major real
advantage is that the significance is easily explained to the public; but I
argue that even this is a somewhat mixed blessing. I conclude by arguing that,
first, more appropriate collections of exam style problems could be assembled,
and second, that there are better kinds of benchmarks than exam-style problems.
In an appendix I present a collection of sample exam-style problems that test
kinds of knowledge missing from the standardized tests.


Commonsense Reasoning, Commonsense Knowledge, and The SP Theory of
  Intelligence

  This paper describes how the "SP Theory of Intelligence" with the "SP
Computer Model", outlined in an Appendix, may throw light on aspects of
commonsense reasoning (CSR) and commonsense knowledge (CSK), as discussed in
another paper by Ernest Davis and Gary Marcus (DM). In four main sections, the
paper describes: 1) The main problems to be solved; 2) Other research on CSR
and CSK; 3) Why the SP system may prove useful with CSR and CSK 4) How examples
described by DM may be modelled in the SP system. With regard to successes in
the automation of CSR described by DM, the SP system's strengths in
simplification and integration may promote seamless integration across these
areas, and seamless integration of those area with other aspects of
intelligence. In considering challenges in the automation of CSR described by
DM, the paper describes in detail, with examples of SP-multiple-alignments. how
the SP system may model processes of interpretation and reasoning arising from
the horse's head scene in "The Godfather" film. A solution is presented to the
'long tail' problem described by DM. The SP system has some potentially useful
things to say about several of DM's objectives for research in CSR and CSK.


Asynchronous Decentralized Algorithm for Space-Time Cooperative
  Pathfinding

  Cooperative pathfinding is a multi-agent path planning problem where a group
of vehicles searches for a corresponding set of non-conflicting space-time
trajectories. Many of the practical methods for centralized solving of
cooperative pathfinding problems are based on the prioritized planning
strategy. However, in some domains (e.g., multi-robot teams of unmanned aerial
vehicles, autonomous underwater vehicles, or unmanned ground vehicles) a
decentralized approach may be more desirable than a centralized one due to
communication limitations imposed by the domain and/or privacy concerns.
  In this paper we present an asynchronous decentralized variant of prioritized
planning ADPP and its interruptible version IADPP. The algorithm exploits the
inherent parallelism of distributed systems and allows for a speed up of the
computation process. Unlike the synchronized planning approaches, the algorithm
allows an agent to react to updates about other agents' paths immediately and
invoke its local spatio-temporal path planner to find the best trajectory, as
response to the other agents' choices. We provide a proof of correctness of the
algorithms and experimentally evaluate them on synthetic domains.


