Vanishing on toric surfaces

  We prove the Kawamata-Viehweg vanishing and another Kodaira-type vanishing
for projective toric surfaces over arbitrary fields.


Generalized integral fluctuation relation with feedback control for
  diffusion processes

  We extend a generalized integral fluctuation relation in diffusion processes
that we obtained previously to the situation with feedback control. The general
relation not only covers existing results but also predicts other unnoticed
fluctuation relations. In addition, we find that its explanation of
time-reversal automatically emerges in the derivation. This interesting
observation leads into an alternative inequality about the entropy-like
quantity with an improved lower bound. Two feedback-controlled Brownian models
are used to verify the result.


A Multigrid Method for the Ground State Solution of Bose-Einstein
  Condensates Based on Newton Iteration

  In this paper, a new kind of multigrid method is proposed for the ground
state solution of Bose-Einstein condensates based on Newton iteration method.
Instead of treating eigenvalue $\lambda$ and eigenvector $u$ respectively, we
regard the eigenpair $(\lambda, u)$ as one element in the composite space $\R
\times H_0^1(\Omega)$ and then Newton iteration method is adopted for the
nonlinear problem. Thus in this multigrid scheme, we only need to solve a
linear discrete boundary value problem in every refined space, which can
improve the overall efficiency for the simulation of Bose-Einstein
condensations.


Toric surfaces over an arbitrary field

  We study toric varieties over an arbitrary field with an emphasis on toric
surfaces in the Merkurjev-Panin motivic category of "K-motives". We explore the
decomposition of certain toric varieties as K-motives into products of central
simple algebras, the geometric and topological information encoded in these
central simple algebras, and the relationship between the decomposition of the
K-motives and the semiorthogonal decomposition of the derived categories. We
obtain the information mentioned above for toric surfaces by explicitly
classifying all minimal smooth projective toric surfaces using toric geometry.


A Study of Background Conditions for Sphinx--The Satellite-Borne
  Gamma-Ray Burst Polarimeter

  SPHiNX is a proposed satellite-borne gamma-ray burst polarimeter operating in
the energy range 50-500 keV. The mission aims to probe the fundamental
mechanism responsible for gamma-ray burst prompt emission through polarisation
measurements. Optimising the signal-to-background ratio for SPHiNX is an
important task during the design phase. The Geant4 Monte Carlo toolkit is used
in this work. From the simulation, the total background outside the South
Atlantic Anomaly (SAA) is about 323 counts/s, which is dominated by the cosmic
X-ray background and albedo gamma rays, which contribute ~60% and ~35% of the
total background, respectively. The background from albedo neutrons and primary
and secondary cosmic rays is negligible. The delayed background induced by the
SAA-trapped protons is about 190 counts/s when SPHiNX operates in orbit for one
year. The resulting total background level of ~513 counts/s allows the
polarisation of ~50 GRBs with minimum detectable polarisation less than 30% to
be determined during the two-year mission lifetime.


A Full Multigrid Method for Nonlinear Eigenvalue Problems

  This paper is to introduce a type of full multigrid method for the nonlinear
eigenvalue problem. The main idea is to transform the solution of nonlinear
eigenvalue problem into a series of solutions of the corresponding linear
boundary value problems on the sequence of finite element spaces and nonlinear
eigenvalue problems on the coarsest finite element space. The linearized
boundary value problems are solved by some multigrid iterations. Besides the
multigrid iteration, all other efficient iteration methods for solving boundary
value problems can serve as the linear problem solver. We will prove that the
computational work of this new scheme is truly optimal, the same as solving the
linear corresponding boundary value problem. In this case, this type of
iteration scheme certainly improves the overfull efficiency of solving
nonlinear eigenvalue problems. Some numerical experiments are presented to
validate the efficiency of the new method.


A complicated Duffing oscillator in the surface-electrode ion trap

  The oscillation coupling and different nonlinear effects are observed in a
single trapped $^{40}Ca^{+}$ ion confined in our home-built surface-electrode
trap (SET). The coupling and the nonlinearity are originated from the
high-order multipole potentials due to different layouts and the fabrication
asymmetry of the SET. We solve a complicated Duffing equation with coupled
oscillation terms by the multiple scale method, which fits the experimental
values very well. Our investigation in the SET helps for exploring nonlinearity
using currently available techniques and for suppressing instability of qubits
in quantum information processing with trapped ions.


Interferometric characterization of pulse front tilt of spatiotemporally
  focused femtosecond laser pulses for three-dimensional micromachining
  application

  We report on an experimental measurement of the pulse front tilt (PFT) of
spatiotemporally focused femtosecond laser pulses in the focal plane in both
air and bulk transparent materials, which is achieved by examination of the
interference pattern between the spatiotemporally focused pulse and a
conventional focused reference pulse as a function of time delay between the
two pulses. Our simulation results agree well with the experimental
observations.


The Synthesis, Structure and Electronic Properties of a Lead-Free Hybrid
  Inorganic-Organic Double Perovskite (MA)2KBiCl6 (MA = methylammonium)

  In a search for Lead-free materials that could be used as alternatives to the
hybrid perovskites,(MA)PbX3, in photovoltaic applications, we have discovered a
hybrid double perovskite, (MA)2KBiCl6, which shows striking similarities to the
lead analogues. Spectroscopic measurements and nanoindentation studies are
combined with density functional calculations to reveal the properties of this
interesting system.


A Real-Time and Energy-Efficient Implementation of
  Difference-of-Gaussian with Flexible Thin-Film Transistors

  With many advantageous features, softness and better biocompatibility,
flexible electronic devices have developed rapidly and increasingly attracted
attention. Many currently applications with flexible devices are sensors and
drivers, while there is nearly no utilization aiming at complex computation
since flexible devices have lower electron mobility, simple structure and large
process variation. In this paper, we proposed an innovative method that enabled
flexible devices to implement real-time and energy-efficient
Difference-of-Gaussian, which illustrated feasibility and potentials for them
to achieve complicated real-time computation in future generation products.


Time-resolved shadowgraphs of transient plasma induced by
  spatiotemporally focused femtosecond laser pulses in fused silica glass

  We report on experimental observations of formation and evolution of
transient plasma produced in fused silica glass with spatiotemporally focused
(STF) femtosecond laser pulses using a pump-probe shadow imaging technique.
Surprisingly, the observation shows that the track of the plasma is
significantly curved, which is attributed to an asymmetric density distribution
of the transient plasma produced in the focal volume caused by the pulse front
tilt of the STF laser field.


Simulation of the In-flight Background for HXMT/HE

  The Hard X-ray Modulation Telescope (HXMT) is a broad band X-ray astronomical
satellite from 1 to 250 keV. Understanding the X-ray background in detail will
help to achieve a good performance of the instrument. In this work, we make use
of the mass modelling technique to estimate the background of High Energy
Telescope (HE) aboard HXMT. It consists of three steps. First, we built a
complete geometric model of HXMT. Then based on the investigation about the
space environment concerning HXMT low-earth orbit, in our simulation we
considered cosmic rays, cosmic X-ray background (CXB), South Atlantic Anomaly
(SAA) trapped particles, the albedo gamma and neutrons from interaction of
cosmic rays with the Earth's atmosphere. Finally, the Shielding Physics List
supplied by Geant4 collaborations was adopted. According to our simulation, (1)
the total background of HXMT/HE is about 540 count/s on average over 20-250 keV
energy band after 100 days in orbit; (2) the delayed component caused by cosmic
rays and SAA trapped particles dominates the full energy band of HXMT/HE; (3)
some emission lines are prominent in the background continuum spectrum and will
be used for in-orbit calibration; (4) the estimated sensitivity is
approximately 0.1 mCrab at 50 keV with an exposure of $10^{6}$ s.


Microscopic Theory of Equilibrium Polariton Condensates

  We present a microscopic theory of the equilibrium polariton condensate state
of a semiconductor quantum well in a planar optical cavity. The theory accounts
for the adjustment of matter excitations to the presence of a coherent photon
field, predicts effective polariton-polariton interaction strengths that are
weaker and condensate exciton fractions that are smaller than in the commonly
employed exciton-photon model, and yields effective Rabi coupling strengths
that depend on the detuning of the cavity photon energy relative to the bare
exciton energy. The dressed quasiparticle bands that appear naturally in the
theory provide a mechanism for electrical manipulation of polariton
condensates.


Integrated four-channel all-fiber up-conversion single-photon-detector
  with adjustable efficiency and dark count

  Up-conversion single photon detector (UCSPD) has been widely used in many
research fields including quantum key distribution (QKD), lidar, optical time
domain reflectrometry (OTDR) and deep space communication. For the first time
in laboratory, we have developed an integrated four-channel all-fiber UCSPD
which can work in both free-running and gate modes. This compact module can
satisfy different experimental demands with adjustable detection efficiency and
dark count. We have characterized the key parameters of the UCSPD system.


A Full Multigrid Method For Semilinear Elliptic Equation

  A full multigrid finite element method is proposed for semilinear elliptic
equations. The main idea is to transform the solution of the semilinear problem
into a series of solutions of the corresponding linear boundary value problems
on the sequence of finite element spaces and semilinear problems on a very low
dimensional space. The linearized boundary value problems are solved by some
multigrid iterations. Besides the multigrid iteration, all other efficient
numerical methods can also serve as the linear solver for solving boundary
value problems. The optimality of the computational work is also proved.
Compared with the existing multigrid methods which need the bounded second
order derivatives of the nonlinear term, the proposed method only needs the
Lipschitz continuation in some sense of the nonlinear term.


An Efficient Multigrid Method for Ground State Solution of Bose-Einstein
  Condensates

  An efficient multigrid method is proposed to compute the ground state
solution of Bose-Einstein condensations by the finite element method based on
the combination of the multigrid method for nonlinear eigenvalue problem and an
efficient implementation for the nonlinear iteration. The proposed numerical
method not only has the optimal convergence rate, but also has the
asymptotically optimal computational work which is independent from the
nonlinearity of the problem. The independence from the nonlinearity means that
the asymptotic estimate of the computational work can reach almost the same as
that of solving the corresponding linear boundary value problem by the
multigrid method. Some numerical experiments are provided to validate the
efficiency of the proposed method.


Differentially Private Generative Adversarial Network

  Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) and its variants have recently attracted
intensive research interests due to their elegant theoretical foundation and
excellent empirical performance as generative models. These tools provide a
promising direction in the studies where data availability is limited. One
common issue in GANs is that the density of the learned generative distribution
could concentrate on the training data points, meaning that they can easily
remember training samples due to the high model complexity of deep networks.
This becomes a major concern when GANs are applied to private or sensitive data
such as patient medical records, and the concentration of distribution may
divulge critical patient information. To address this issue, in this paper we
propose a differentially private GAN (DPGAN) model, in which we achieve
differential privacy in GANs by adding carefully designed noise to gradients
during the learning procedure. We provide rigorous proof for the privacy
guarantee, as well as comprehensive empirical evidence to support our analysis,
where we demonstrate that our method can generate high quality data points at a
reasonable privacy level.


Second-order photonic topological insulator with corner states

  Higher-order topological insulators (HOTIs) which go beyond the description
of conventional bulk-boundary correspondence, broaden the understanding of
topological insulating phases. Being mainly focused on electronic materials,
HOTIs have not been found in photonic systems yet. In this article, we propose
a type of two-dimensional second-order photonic crystals with zero-dimensional
corner states and one-dimensional boundary states for optical frequencies. All
of these states are topologically non-trivial and can be understood based on
the theory of topological polarization. Moreover, by tuning the
easily-fabricated structure of the photonic crystals, we can realize different
topological phases with unique topological boundary states straightforwardly.
Our result can be generalized to higher dimensions and provides unprecedented
venues for higher-order photonic topological insulators and semimetals.


Electronic identification of the actual parental phase of KxFe2-ySe2
  superconductor and its intrinsic mesoscopic phase separation

  While the parent compounds of the cuprate high temperature superconductors
(high-Tc's) are Mott insulators, the iron-pnictide high-Tc's are in the
vicinity of a metallic spin density wave (SDW) state, which highlights the
difference between these two families. However, insulating parent compounds
were identified for the newly discovered KxFe2-ySe2. This raises an intriguing
question as to whether the iron-based high-Tc's could be viewed as doped Mott
insulators like the cuprates. Here we report angle-resolved photoemission
spectroscopy (ARPES) evidence of two insulating and one semiconducting phases
of KxFe2-ySe2, and the mesoscopic phase separation between the
superconducting/semiconducting phase and the insulating phases. The insulating
phases are characterized by the depletion of electronic states over a 0.5 eV
window below the chemical potential, giving a compelling evidence for the
presence of Mott-like physics. The charging effects and the absence of band
folding in the superconducting/semiconducting phase further prove that the
static magnetic and vacancy orders are not related to the superconductivity.
Instead, the electronic structure of the superconducting phase is much closer
to the semiconducting phase, indicating the superconductivity is likely
developed by doping the semiconducting phase rather than the insulating phases.


Attentive Sequence to Sequence Translation for Localizing Clips of
  Interest by Natural Language Descriptions

  We propose a novel attentive sequence to sequence translator (ASST) for clip
localization in videos by natural language descriptions. We make two
contributions. First, we propose a bi-directional Recurrent Neural Network
(RNN) with a finely calibrated vision-language attentive mechanism to
comprehensively understand the free-formed natural language descriptions. The
RNN parses natural language descriptions in two directions, and the attentive
model attends every meaningful word or phrase to each frame, thereby resulting
in a more detailed understanding of video content and description semantics.
Second, we design a hierarchical architecture for the network to jointly model
language descriptions and video content. Given a video-description pair, the
network generates a matrix representation, i.e., a sequence of vectors. Each
vector in the matrix represents a video frame conditioned by the description.
The 2D representation not only preserves the temporal dependencies of frames
but also provides an effective way to perform frame-level video-language
matching. The hierarchical architecture exploits video content with multiple
granularities, ranging from subtle details to global context. Integration of
the multiple granularities yields a robust representation for multi-level
video-language abstraction. We validate the effectiveness of our ASST on two
large-scale datasets. Our ASST outperforms the state-of-the-art by $4.28\%$ in
Rank$@1$ on the DiDeMo dataset. On the Charades-STA dataset, we significantly
improve the state-of-the-art by $13.41\%$ in Rank$@1,IoU=0.5$.


The first laws of thermodynamics of the (2+1)-dimensional BTZ black
  holes and Kerr-de Sitter spacetimes

  We investigate the first law of thermodynamics in the case of the
(2+1)-dimensional BTZ black holes and Kerr-de Sitter spacetimes, in particular,
we focus on the integral mass formulas. It is found that by assuming the
cosmological constant as a variable state parameter, both the differential and
integral mass formulas of the first law of black hole thermodynamics in the
asymptotic flat spacetimes can be directly extended to those of rotating black
holes in anti-de Sitter and de Sitter backgrounds. It should be pointed that
these formulas come into existence in any dimensions also.


Electronic structure of BaNi$_2$As$_2$

  BaNi$_2$As$_2$, with a first order phase transition around 131 K, is studied
by the angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy. The measured electronic
structure is compared to the local density approximation calculations,
revealing similar large electronlike bands around $\bar{M}$ and differences
along $\bar{\Gamma}$-$\bar{X}$. We further show that the electronic structure
of BaNi$_2$As$_2$ is distinct from that of the sibling iron pnictides.
Particularly, there is no signature of band folding, indicating no collinear
SDW related magnetic ordering. Moreover, across the strong first order phase
transition, the band shift exhibits a hysteresis, which is directly related to
the significant lattice distortion in BaNi$_2$As$_2$.


The distinct in-plane resistivity anisotropy in the nematic states of
  detwinned NaFeAs and FeTe single crystals: evidences for Hund's rule metal

  The in-plane resistivity anisotropy has been studied with the Montgomery
method on two detwinned parent compounds of the iron-based superconductors,
NaFeAs and FeTe. For NaFeAs, the resistivity in the antiferromagnetic (AFM)
direction is smaller than that in the ferromagnetic (FM) direction, similar to
that observed in BaFe2As2 before. While for FeTe, the resistivity in the AFM
direction is larger than that in the FM direction. We show that these two
opposite resistivity anisotropy behaviors could be attributed to the strong
Hund's rule coupling effects: while the iron pnictides are in the itinerant
regime, where the Hund's rule coupling causes strong reconstruction and
nematicity of the electronic structure; the FeTe is in the localized regime,
where Hund's rule coupling makes hopping along the FM direction easier than
along the AFMdirection, similar to the colossal magnetoresistance observed in
some manganites.


A good mass proxy for galaxy clusters with XMM-Newton

  We use a sample of 39 galaxy clusters at redshift z < 0.1 observed by
XMM-Newton to investigate the relations between X-ray observables and total
mass. Based on central cooling time and central temperature drop, the clusters
in this sample are divided into two groups: 25 cool core clusters and 14
non-cool core clusters, respectively. We study the scaling relations of
Lbol-M500, M500-T, M500-Mg and M500-YX, and also the influences of cool core on
these relations. The results show that the M500-YX relation has a slope close
to the standard self-similar value, has the smallest scatter and does not vary
with the cluster sample. Moreover, the M500-YX relation is not affected by the
cool core. Thus, the parameter of YX may be the best mass indicator.


Spatiotemporal focusing does not always improve axial intensity
  localization

  We report on an experimental comparison on critical intensities of nonlinear
self-focusing in air with conventional focusing and spatiotemporal focusing
schemes. Our results show that the conventional focusing with the focal lens
completely filled with the incident beam allows for the strongest axial
intensity confinement against the self-focusing effect. This is because that in
the high-numerical-aperture condition, the focal spot will have a compact size
which results in a high focal intensity. Meanwhile, the Rayleigh length of the
focused beam will be substantially shortened which efficiently postpones the
onset of self-focusing.


Second harmonic generation in a centrosymmetric gas medium with
  spatiotemporally focused intense femtosecond laser pulses

  We demonstrate unexpectedly strong second harmonic generation (SHG) in Argon
gas by use of spatiotemporally focused (SF) femtosecond laser pulses. The
resulting SHG by the SF scheme at a 75 cm distance shows a significantly
enhanced efficiency than that achieved with conventional focusing scheme, which
offers a new promising possibility for standoff applications. Our theoretical
calculations reasonably reproduce the experimental observations, which indicate
that the observed SHG mainly originates from the gradient of nonuniform plasma
dynamically controlled by the SF laser field.


Using ACL2 to Verify Loop Pipelining in Behavioral Synthesis

  Behavioral synthesis involves compiling an Electronic System-Level (ESL)
design into its Register-Transfer Level (RTL) implementation. Loop pipelining
is one of the most critical and complex transformations employed in behavioral
synthesis. Certifying the loop pipelining algorithm is challenging because
there is a huge semantic gap between the input sequential design and the output
pipelined implementation making it infeasible to verify their equivalence with
automated sequential equivalence checking techniques. We discuss our ongoing
effort using ACL2 to certify loop pipelining transformation. The completion of
the proof is work in progress. However, some of the insights developed so far
may already be of value to the ACL2 community. In particular, we discuss the
key invariant we formalized, which is very different from that used in most
pipeline proofs. We discuss the needs for this invariant, its formalization in
ACL2, and our envisioned proof using the invariant. We also discuss some
trade-offs, challenges, and insights developed in course of the project.


OpenRISC System-on-Chip Design Emulation

  Recently the hardware emulation technique has emerged as a promising approach
to accelerating hardware verification/debugging process. To fully evaluate the
powerfulness of the emulation approach and demonstrate its potential impact, we
propose to emulate a system-on-chip (SoC) design using Mentor Graphics Veloce
emulation platform. This article presents our project setup and the results we
have achieved. The results are encouraging. ORPSoC emulation with Veloce has
more than ten times faster than hardware simulation. Our experimental results
demonstrate that Mentor Graphics Veloce has major advantages in emulation,
verification, and debugging of complicated real hardware designs, especially in
the context of SoC complexity. Through our three major tasks, we will
demonstrate that (1) Veloce can successfully emulate large-scale SoC designs;
(2) it has much better performance comparing to the state-of-the-art simulation
tools; (3) it can significantly accelerate the process of hardware verification
and debugging while maintaining full signal visibility.


Synthesis, Crystal Structure and Properties of a Perovskite-Related
  Bismuth Phase, (NH4)3Bi2I9

  Organic-inorganic halide perovskites, especially methylammonium lead halide,
have recently led to a remarkable breakthrough in photovoltaic devices.
However, due to the environmental and stability concerns of the heavy metal,
lead, in these perovskite based solar cells, research in the non-lead
perovskite structures have been attracting increasing attention. In this study,
a layered perovskite-like architecture, (NH4)3Bi2I9, was prepared in solution
and the structure was solved by single crystal X-ray diffraction. The results
from DFT calculations showed the significant lone pair effect of the bismuth
ion and the band gap was measured as around 2.04 eV, which is lower than the
band gap of CH3NH3PbBr3. Conductivity measurement was also performed to examine
the potential in the applications as an alternative to the lead containing
perovskites.


Experimental Adiabatic Quantum Factorization under Ambient Conditions
  Based on a Solid-State Single Spin System

  The adiabatic quantum computation is a universal and robust method of quantum
computing. In this architecture, the problem can be solved by adiabatically
evolving the quantum processor from the ground state of a simple initial
Hamiltonian to that of a final one, which encodes the solution of the problem.
By far, there is no experimental realization of adiabatic quantum computation
on a single solid spin system under ambient conditions, which has been proved
to be a compatible candidate for scalable quantum computation. In this letter,
we report on the first experimental realization of an adiabatic quantum
algorithm on a single solid spin system under ambient conditions. All elements
of adiabatic quantum computation, including initial state preparation,
adiabatic evolution, and final state readout, are realized experimentally. As
an example, we factored 35 into its prime factors 5 and 7 on our adiabatic
quantum processor.


Probing Lepton Flavor Violation Signal via γγ\to l_i\barl_j in
  the Left-Right Twin Higgs Model at the ILC

  To explain the small neutrino masses, heavy Majorana neutrinos are introduced
in the left-right twin Higgs model. The heavy neutrinos, together with the
charged scalars and the heavy gauge bosons, may contribute large mixings
between the neutrinos and the charged leptons, which may induce some distinct
lepton flavor violating processes. We will check the \bar \ell_i \ell_j (i,j=
e,\mu,\tau,i\neq j) productions in the \gamma\gamma collision in the left-right
twin Higgs model, and find that the production rates may be large in some
specific parameter space, in the optimal cases even possible to be detected
with reasonable kinematical cuts. we have also shown that these collisions can
constrain effectively the model parameters such as the Higgs vacuum expectation
value and the right-handed neutrino mass, etc., and may serve as a sensitive
probe of this new physics model.


1.064-um-band up-conversion single-photon detector

  Based on the technique of periodically poled lithium niobate (PPLN)
waveguide, up-conversion single-photon detection at 1.064-{\mu}m is
demonstrated. We have achieved a system photon detection efficiency (DE) of
32.5% with a very low noise count rate (NCR) of 45 counts per second (cps) by
pumping with a 1.55-{\mu}m-band single frequency laser using the
long-wavelength pumping technique and exploiting volume Bragg grating (VBG) as
a narrow band filter. Replacing the VBG with a combination of adequate
dielectric filters, a DE of up to 38% with a NCR of 700 cps is achieved, making
the overall system more stable and practical. The up-conversion single-photon
detector (SPD) operating at 1.064 {\mu}m can be a promising robust counter and
find usage in many fields.


Highly Deformable and Mobile Palladium Nanocrystals as Efficient Carbon
  Scavengers

  Fouling of surfaces leads to performance degradation in many energy-intensive
industrial processes, but the present solutions are either too complicated to
be routinely used or incomplete for eradication. Here we propose and
demonstrate that carbon-containing deposits can be catalytically wiped out in
an efficient way by roaming palladium nanoparticles with extreme shape
flexibility at relatively low temperatures. Surprisingly, during their dramatic
liquid-like migrations, these particles could still maintain crystalline
interior and conserve their initial crystal orientations through self-surface
diffusion. Moreover, these catalytic particles were even able to become
regenerated by other roaming particles after occasionally deactivated by
surface coking or multiple-particle sintering. These findings shed light on
metabolically driven, "living" nanocrystals, and also open a new avenue for
efficient catalysis.


Fast OBDD Reordering using Neural Message Passing on Hypergraph

  Ordered binary decision diagrams (OBDDs) are an efficient data structure for
representing and manipulating Boolean formulas. With respect to different
variable orders, the OBDDs' sizes may vary from linear to exponential in the
number of the Boolean variables. Finding the optimal variable order has been
proved a NP-complete problem. Many heuristics have been proposed to find a
near-optimal solution of this problem. In this paper, we propose a neural
network-based method to predict near-optimal variable orders for unknown
formulas. Viewing these formulas as hypergraphs, and lifting the message
passing neural network into 3-hypergraph (MPNN3), we are able to learn the
patterns of Boolean formula. Compared to the traditional methods, our method
can find a near-the-best solution with an extremely shorter time, even for some
hard examples.To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work on applying
neural network to OBDD reordering.


Segregated Temporal Assembly Recurrent Networks for Weakly Supervised
  Multiple Action Detection

  This paper proposes a segregated temporal assembly recurrent (STAR) network
for weakly-supervised multiple action detection. The model learns from
untrimmed videos with only supervision of video-level labels and makes
prediction of intervals of multiple actions. Specifically, we first assemble
video clips according to class labels by an attention mechanism that learns
class-variable attention weights and thus helps the noise relieving from
background or other actions. Secondly, we build temporal relationship between
actions by feeding the assembled features into an enhanced recurrent neural
network. Finally, we transform the output of recurrent neural network into the
corresponding action distribution. In order to generate more precise temporal
proposals, we design a score term called segregated temporal gradient-weighted
class activation mapping (ST-GradCAM) fused with attention weights. Experiments
on THUMOS'14 and ActivityNet1.3 datasets show that our approach outperforms the
state-of-the-art weakly-supervised method, and performs at par with the
fully-supervised counterparts.


Phase transition and anomalous scaling in the quantum Hall transport of
  topological insulator Sn-Bi1.1Sb0.9Te2S devices

  The scaling physics of quantum Hall transport in optimized topological
insulators with a plateau precision of ~1/1000 e2/h is considered. Two
exponential scaling regimes are observed in temperature-dependent transport
dissipation, one of which accords with thermal activation behavior with a gap
of 2.8 meV (> 20 K), the other being attributed to variable range hopping (1-20
K). Magnetic field-driven plateau-to-plateau transition gives scaling relations
of (dR$_{xy}$/dB)$^{max}$ \propto T$^{-\kappa}$ and \DeltaB$^{-1}$ \propto
T$^{-\kappa}$ with a consistent exponent of \kappa ~ 0.2, which is half the
universal value for a conventional two-dimensional electron gas. This is
evidence of percolation assisted by quantum tunneling, and reveals the
dominance of electron-electron interaction of the topological surface states.


Non-topological Origin of the Planar Hall Effect in Type-II Dirac
  Semimetal NiTe2

  Dirac and Weyl semimetals are new discovered topological nontrivial materials
with the linear band dispersions around the Dirac/Weyl points. When applying
non-orthogonal electric current and magnetic field, an exotic phenomenon called
chiral anomaly arises and negative longitudinal resistance can be detected.
Recently, a new phenomenon named planer Hall effect (PHE) is considered to be
another indication of chiral anomaly which has been observed in many
topological semimetals. However, it still remains a question that is the PHE
only attributed to chiral anomaly? Here we demonstrate the PHE in a
new-discovered type-II Dirac semimetal NiTe2 by low temperature transport.
However, after detailed analysis, we conclude that the PHE results from the
trivial orbital magnetoresistance. This work reveals that PHE is not a
sufficient condition of chiral anomaly and one need to take special care of
other non-topological contribution in such studies.


Up-conversion single-photon detectors based on integrated periodically
  poled lithium niobate waveguides

  We demonstrate up-conversion single-photon detectors based on integrated
periodically poled lithium niobate waveguides, which incorporate two mode
filters and a directional coupler. The two mode filters are optimized for the
fiber-waveguide coupling efficiencies for 1550 nm and 1950 nm respectively
while the directional coupler plays the role of wavelength combiner, making the
overall system portable and low-cost. The two wavelengths pump each other in
our detection system. We achieve detection efficiencies of 28% for 1550 nm and
27% for 1950 nm, respectively. This scheme provides an efficient integrated
single-photon detection method for any two well-separated spectral bands in the
whole low-loss range of lithium niobate waveguides.


Efficient Video Scene Text Spotting: Unifying Detection, Tracking, and
  Recognition

  This paper proposes an unified framework for efficiently spotting scene text
in videos. The method localizes and tracks text in each frame, and recognizes
each tracked text stream one-time. Specifically, we first train a
spatial-temporal text detector for localizing text regions in the sequential
frames. Secondly, a well-designed text tracker is trained for grouping the
localized text regions into corresponding cropped text streams. To efficiently
spot video text, we recognize each tracked text stream one-time with a text
region quality scoring mechanism instead of identifying the cropped text
regions one-by-one. Experiments on two public benchmarks demonstrate that our
method achieves impressive performance.


Understanding Service Integration of Online Social Networks: A
  Data-Driven Study

  The cross-site linking function is widely adopted by online social networks
(OSNs). This function allows a user to link her account on one OSN to her
accounts on other OSNs. Thus, users are able to sign in with the linked
accounts, share contents among these accounts and import friends from them. It
leads to the service integration of different OSNs. This integration not only
provides convenience for users to manage accounts of different OSNs, but also
introduces usefulness to OSNs that adopt the cross-site linking function. In
this paper, we investigate this usefulness based on users' data collected from
a popular OSN called Medium. We conduct a thorough analysis on its social
graph, and find that the service integration brought by the cross-site linking
function is able to change Medium's social graph structure and attract a large
number of new users. However, almost none of the new users would become high
PageRank users (PageRank is used to measure a user's influence in an OSN). To
solve this problem, we build a machine-learning-based model to predict high
PageRank users in Medium based on their Twitter data only. This model achieves
a high F1-score of 0.942 and a high area under the curve (AUC) of 0.986. Based
on it, we design a system to assist new OSNs to identify and attract high
PageRank users from other well-established OSNs through the cross-site linking
function.


High-throughput, high-resolution registration-free generated adversarial
  network microscopy

  We combine generative adversarial network (GAN) with light microscopy to
achieve deep learning super-resolution under a large field of view (FOV). By
appropriately adopting prior microscopy data in an adversarial training, the
neural network can recover a high-resolution, accurate image of new specimen
from its single low-resolution measurement. Its capacity has been broadly
demonstrated via imaging various types of samples, such as USAF resolution
target, human pathological slides, fluorescence-labelled fibroblast cells, and
deep tissues in transgenic mouse brain, by both wide-field and light-sheet
microscopes. The gigapixel, multi-color reconstruction of these samples
verifies a successful GAN-based single image super-resolution procedure. We
also propose an image degrading model to generate low resolution images for
training, making our approach free from the complex image registration during
training dataset preparation. After a welltrained network being created, this
deep learning-based imaging approach is capable of recovering a large FOV (~95
mm2), high-resolution (~1.7 {\mu}m) image at high speed (within 1 second),
while not necessarily introducing any changes to the setup of existing
microscopes.


High-resolution angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy study of the
  electronic structure of EuFe2As2

  We report the high-resolution angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy
studies of electronic structure of EuFe2As2. The paramagnetic state data are
found to be consistent with density-functional calculations. In the
antiferromagnetic ordering state of Fe, our results show that the band
splitting, folding, and hybridization evolve with temperature, which cannot be
explained by a simple folding picture. Detailed measurements reveal that a tiny
electron Fermi pocket and a tiny hole pocket are formed near (pi,pi) in the
(0,0)-(pi,pi) direction, which qualitatively agree with the results of quantum
oscillations, considering kz variation of Fermi surface. Furthermore, no
noticeable change within the energy resolution is observed across the
antiferromagnetic transition of Eu2+ ordering, suggesting weak coupling between
Eu sublattice and FeAs sublattice.


Pion-induced production of the $Z_c(3900)$ off a nuclear target

  We investigate the possibility to study the charmoniumlike state $Z_c(3900)$
through the pion-induced production off a nuclear target. By using a
high-energy pion beam, the $Z_c(3900)$ can be produced off a proton or nucleus
though the Primakoff effect. The production amplitude is calculated in an
effective Lagrangian approach combined with the vector dominance model. The
total cross sections of the $p(\pi^-, Z^-_c(3900))$ and $p(\pi^-,
Z^-_c(3900)\to J/\psi\pi^-)$ reactions are calculated, and their order of
magnitude is about 0.1 and 0.01nb, respectively, with an assumption of branch
ratio 10\% for the $Z_c(3900)$ decay in $J/\psi\pi$ channel. If the proton
target is replaced by a nuclear target, the production of the $Z_c(3900)$
enhances obviously. The predicted total cross sections for the $A(\pi^-,
Z^-_c(3900))$ and $A(\pi^-, Z^-_c(3900)\to J/\psi\pi^-)$ reactions with
$A=^{12}$C or $^{208}$Pb are on the order of magnitude of 100 and 10 nb,
respectively, which is about one thousand times larger than the cross sections
off a proton target. Based on these the results, we suggest the experimental
study of the $Z_c(3900)$ by using high-energy pion beams with a nuclear target
at facilities such as COMPASS and J-PARC.


Dirac-Point Solitons in Nonlinear Optical Lattices

  The discovery of a new type of solitons occuring in periodic systems without
photonic bandgaps is reported. Solitons are nonlinear self-trapped wave
packets. They have been extensively studied in many branches of physics.
Solitons in periodic systems, which have become the mainstream of soliton
research in the past decade, are localized states supported by photonic
bandgaps. In this Letter, we report the discovery of a new type of solitons
located at the Dirac point beyond photonic bandgaps. The Dirac point is a
conical singularity of a photonic band structure where wave motion obeys the
famous Dirac equation. These new solitons are sustained by the Dirac point
rather than photonic bandgaps, thus provides a sort of advance in conceptual
understanding over the traditional gap solitons. Apart from their theoretical
impact within soliton theory, they have many potential uses because such
solitons have dramatic stability characteristics and are possible in both Kerr
material and photorefractive crystals that possess self-focusing and
self-defocusing nonlinearities. The new results elegantly reveal that
traditional photonic bandgaps are not required when Dirac points are
accessible. The findings enrich the soliton family and provide valuable
information for studies of nonlinear waves in many branches of physics,
including hydrodynamics, plasma physics, and Bose Einstein condensates.


Electronic structure of FeS

  Here we report the electronic structure of FeS, a recently identified
iron-based superconductor. Our high-resolution angle-resolved photoemission
spectroscopy studies show two hole-like ($\alpha$ and $\beta$) and two
electron-like ($\eta$ and $\delta$) Fermi pockets around the Brillouin zone
center and corner, respectively, all of which exhibit moderate dispersion along
$k_z$. However, a third hole-like band ($\gamma$) is not observed, which is
expected around the zone center from band calculations and is common in
iron-based superconductors. Since this band has the highest renormalization
factor and is known to be the most vulnerable to defects, its absence in our
data is likely due to defect scattering --- and yet superconductivity can exist
without coherent quasiparticles in the $\gamma$ band. This may help resolve the
current controversy on the superconducting gap structure of FeS. Moreover, by
comparing the $\beta$ bandwidths of various iron chalcogenides, including FeS,
FeSe$_{1-x}$S$_x$, FeSe, and FeSe$_{1-x}$ Te$_x$, we find that the $\beta$
bandwidth of FeS is the broadest. However, the band renormalization factor of
FeS is still quite large, when compared with the band calculations, which
indicates sizable electron correlations. This explains why the unconventional
superconductivity can persist over such a broad range of isovalent substitution
in FeSe$_{1-x}$Te$_{x}$ and FeSe$_{1-x}$S$_{x}$.


Deep Stock Representation Learning: From Candlestick Charts to
  Investment Decisions

  We propose a novel investment decision strategy (IDS) based on deep learning.
The performance of many IDSs is affected by stock similarity. Most existing
stock similarity measurements have the problems: (a) The linear nature of many
measurements cannot capture nonlinear stock dynamics; (b) The estimation of
many similarity metrics (e.g. covariance) needs very long period historic data
(e.g. 3K days) which cannot represent current market effectively; (c) They
cannot capture translation-invariance. To solve these problems, we apply
Convolutional AutoEncoder to learn a stock representation, based on which we
propose a novel portfolio construction strategy by: (i) using the deeply
learned representation and modularity optimisation to cluster stocks and
identify diverse sectors, (ii) picking stocks within each cluster according to
their Sharpe ratio (Sharpe 1994). Overall this strategy provides low-risk
high-return portfolios. We use the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index
(FTSE 100) data for evaluation. Results show our portfolio outperforms FTSE 100
index and many well known funds in terms of total return in 2000 trading days.


Data Dwarfs: A Lens Towards Fully Understanding Big Data and AI
  Workloads

  The complexity and diversity of big data and AI workloads make understanding
them difficult and challenging. This paper proposes a new approach to
characterizing big data and AI workloads. We consider each big data and AI
workload as a pipeline of one or more classes of unit of computations performed
on different initial or intermediate data inputs. Each class of unit of
computation captures the common requirements while being reasonably divorced
from individual implementations, and hence we call it a data dwarf. For the
first time, among a wide variety of big data and AI workloads, we identify
eight data dwarfs that takes up most of run time, including Matrix, Sampling,
Logic, Transform, Set, Graph, Sort and Statistic. We implement the eight data
dwarfs on different software stacks as the micro benchmarks of an open-source
big data and AI benchmark suite, and perform comprehensive characterization of
those data dwarfs from perspective of data sizes, types, sources, and patterns
as a lens towards fully understanding big data and AI workloads.


Investigating Generative Adversarial Networks based Speech
  Dereverberation for Robust Speech Recognition

  We investigate the use of generative adversarial networks (GANs) in speech
dereverberation for robust speech recognition. GANs have been recently studied
for speech enhancement to remove additive noises, but there still lacks of a
work to examine their ability in speech dereverberation and the advantages of
using GANs have not been fully established. In this paper, we provide deep
investigations in the use of GAN-based dereverberation front-end in ASR. First,
we study the effectiveness of different dereverberation networks (the generator
in GAN) and find that LSTM leads a significant improvement as compared with
feed-forward DNN and CNN in our dataset. Second, further adding residual
connections in the deep LSTMs can boost the performance as well. Finally, we
find that, for the success of GAN, it is important to update the generator and
the discriminator using the same mini-batch data during training. Moreover,
using reverberant spectrogram as a condition to discriminator, as suggested in
previous studies, may degrade the performance. In summary, our GAN-based
dereverberation front-end achieves 14%-19% relative CER reduction as compared
to the baseline DNN dereverberation network when tested on a strong
multi-condition training acoustic model.


Doping effects of Cr on the physical properties of
  BaFe$_{1.9-x}$Ni$_{0.1}$Cr$_{x}$As$_{2}$

  We present a systematic study on the heavily Cr doped iron pnictides
BaFe$_{1.9-x}$Ni$_{0.1}$Cr$_{x}$As$_{2}$ by using elastic neutron scattering,
high-resolution synchrotron X-ray diffraction (XRD), resistivity and Hall
transport measurements. When the Cr concentration increases from $x=$ 0 to 0.8,
neutron diffraction experiments suggest that the collinear antiferromagnetism
persists in the whole doping range, where the N\'{e}el temperature $T_N$
coincides with the tetragonal-to-orthorhombic structural transition temperature
$T_s$, and both of them keeps around 35 K. The magnetic ordered moment, on the
other hand, increases within increasing $x$ until $x=$ 0.5, and then decreases
with further increasing $x$. Detailed refinement of the powder XRD patterns
reveals that the Cr substitutions actually stretch the FeAs$_4$ tetrahedron
along the $c-$axis and lift the arsenic height away Fe-Fe plane. Transport
results indicate that the charge carriers become more localized upon Cr doping,
then changes from electron-type to hole-type around $x=$ 0.5. Our results
suggest that the ordered moment and the ordered temperature of static magnetism
in iron pnictides can be decoupled and tuned separately by chemical doping.


Data Motifs: A Lens Towards Fully Understanding Big Data and AI
  Workloads

  The complexity and diversity of big data and AI workloads make understanding
them difficult and challenging. This paper proposes a new approach to modelling
and characterizing big data and AI workloads. We consider each big data and AI
workload as a pipeline of one or more classes of units of computation performed
on different initial or intermediate data inputs. Each class of unit of
computation captures the common requirements while being reasonably divorced
from individual implementations, and hence we call it a data motif. For the
first time, among a wide variety of big data and AI workloads, we identify
eight data motifs that take up most of the run time of those workloads,
including Matrix, Sampling, Logic, Transform, Set, Graph, Sort and Statistic.
We implement the eight data motifs on different software stacks as the micro
benchmarks of an open-source big data and AI benchmark suite ---BigDataBench
4.0 (publicly available from http://prof.ict.ac.cn/BigDataBench), and perform
comprehensive characterization of those data motifs from perspective of data
sizes, types, sources, and patterns as a lens towards fully understanding big
data and AI workloads. We believe the eight data motifs are promising
abstractions and tools for not only big data and AI benchmarking, but also
domain-specific hardware and software co-design.


