Weight hierarchies of a family of linear codes associated with
  degenerate quadratic forms

  We restrict the degenerate quadratic forms of a finite field to its subspaces
and quotient spaces. And some related results on the subspaces and quotient
spaces are obtained. Based on this, we solve the weight hierarchies of a family
of linear codes relating to these degenerate quadratic forms.


Motivic double zeta values of odd weight

  We establish a short exact sequence about motivic double zeta values of odd
weight.


Strong solutions of jump-type stochastic equations

  We establish the existence and uniqueness of strong solutions to some
jump-type stochastic equations under non-Lipschitz conditions. The results
improve those of Fu and Li (2010) and Li and Mytnik (2011).


Circulant Digraphs Integral over Number Fields

  A number field K is a finite extension of rational number field Q. A
circulant digraph integral over K means that all its eigenvalues are algebraic
integers of K. In this paper we give the sufficient and necessary condition for
circulant digraphs which are integral over a number field K. And we solve the
Conjecture3.3 in [XM] and find it is affirmative.


Complete weight enumerators of two classes of linear codes

  Recently, linear codes with few weights have been constructed and extensively
studied. In this paper, for an odd prime p, we determined the complete weight
enumerator of two classes of p-ary linear codes constructed from defining set.
Results show that the codes are at almost seven-weight linear codes and they
may have applications in secret sharing schemes.


Binary linear codes with at most 4 weights

  For the past decades, linear codes with few weights have been widely studied,
since they have applications in space communications, data storage and
cryptography. In this paper, a class of binary linear codes is constructed and
their weight distribution is determined. Results show that they are at most
4-weight linear codes. Additionally, these codes can be used in secret sharing
schemes.


A method to determine algebraically integral Cayley digraphs on finite
  Abelian group

  Researchers in the past have studied eigenvalues of Cayley digraphs or
graphs. We are interested in characterizing Cayley digraphs on a finite Abelian
group G whose eigenvalues are algebraic integers in a given number field K. And
we succeed in finding a method to do so by proving Theorem 1. Also, the number
of such Cayley digraphs is computed.


A family of linear codes with three weights

  Recently, linear codes constructed by defining sets have attracted a lot of
study, and many optimal linear codes with a few weights have been produced. The
objective of this paper is to present a class of binary linear codes with three
weights.


Entanglement conditions for multi-mode states

  We provide a class of inequalities for detecting entanglements in multi-mode
systems. Necessary conditions for fully separable, bi-separable and sufficient
conditions for fully entangled states are explicitly presented.


Differential Geometry of Bipartite Quantum States

  We investigate the differential geometry of bipartite quantum states. In
particular the manifold structures of pure bipartite states are studied in
detail. The manifolds with respect to all normalized pure states of arbitrarily
given Schmidt ranks or Schmidt coefficients are explicitly presented. The
dimensions of the related manifolds are calculated.


Bounds for multipartite concurrence

  We study the entanglement of a multipartite quantum state. An inequality
between the bipartite concurrence and the multipartite concurrence is obtained.
More effective lower and upper bounds of the multipartite concurrence are
obtained. By using the lower bound, the entanglement of more multipartite
states are detected.


Gisin's Theorem for Arbitrary Dimensional Multipartite States

  We present a set of Bell inequalities which are sufficient and necessary for
separability of general pure multipartite quantum states in arbitrary
dimensions. The relations between Bell inequalities and distillability are also
studied. We show that any quantum states that violate one of these Bell
inequalities are distillable.


A Generalization of Fueter's Theorem in Dunkl-Clifford Analysis

  In this paper we first offer an alternative approach to extend the original
Fueter's Theorem in Dunkl-Clifford analysis to a version of the higher order
case. Then this result is used to prove a generlized version of Fueter's
Theorem with an extra homogeneous Dunkl-monogenic polynomial
$P_n(x_0,\underline{x})$ in $\R_1^d$ instead of the classical factor
$P_n(\underline{x})$ in $\R^d$.


Lower Bound of Concurrence Based on Positive Maps

  We study the concurrence of arbitrary dimensional bipartite quantum systems.
An explicit analytical lower bound of concurrence is obtained, which detects
entanglement for some quantum states better than some well-known separability
criteria, and improves the lower bounds such as from the PPT, realignment
criteria and the Breuer's entanglement witness.


Method for measuring the entanglement of formation for
  arbitrary-dimensional pure states

  Entanglement of formation is an important measure of quantum entanglement. We
present an experimental way to measure the entanglement of formation for
arbitrary dimensional pure states. The measurement only evolves local quantum
mechanical observables.


Lower Bounds of Concurrence for Multipartite States

  We study the entanglement of multipartite quantum states. Some lower bounds
of the multipartite concurrence are reviewed. We further present more effective
lower bounds for detecting and qualifying entanglement, by establishing
functional relations between the concurrence and the generalized partial
transpositions of the multipartite systems.


Separability and Entanglement of Quantum States Based on Covariance
  Matrices

  We investigate the separability of quantum states based on covariance
matrices. Separability criteria are presented for multipartite states. The
lower bound of concurrence proposed in Phys. Rev. A. 75, 052320 (2007) is
improved by optimizing the local orthonormal observables.


Quantum Separability Criteria for Arbitrary Dimensional Multipartite
  States

  We present separability criteria for both bipartite and multipartite quantum
states. These criteria include the criteria based on the correlation matrix and
its generalized form as special cases. We show by detailed examples that our
criteria are more powerful than the positive partial transposition criterion,
the realignment criterion and the criteria based on the correlation matrices.


Measurable bounds for Entanglement of Formation

  We study the entanglement of formation for arbitrary dimensional bipartite
mixed unknown states. Experimentally measurable lower and upper bounds for
entanglement of formation are derived.


The Li intercalation potential of LiMPO4 and LiMSiO4 olivines with M =
  Fe, Mn, Co, Ni

  The Li intercalation potential of LiMPO4 and LiMSiO4 compounds with M = Fe,
Mn, Co, and Ni is computed with the GGA+U method. It is found that this
approach is considerably more accurate than standard LDA or GGA methods. The
calculated potentials for LiFePO4, LiMnPO4 and LiCoOPO4 agree to within 0.1 V
with experimental results. The LiNiPO4 potential is predicted to be above 5 V.
The potentials of the silicate materials are all found to be rather high, but
LiFeSiO4 and LiCoSiO4 have negligible volume change upon Li extraction.


Online Maximizing Weighted Throughput In A Fading Channel

  We consider online scheduling weighted packets with time constraints over a
fading channel. Packets arrive at the transmitter in an online manner. Each
packet has a value and a deadline by which it should be sent. The fade state of
the channel determines the throughput obtained per unit of time and the
channel's quality may change over time. In this paper, we design online
algorithms to maximize weighted throughput, defined as the total value of the
packets sent by their respective deadlines. Competitive ratio is employed to
measure an online algorithm's performance. For this problem and one of its
variants, we present two online algorithms with competitive ratios 2.618 and 2
respectively.


A Class of Linear Codes With Three Weights

  Linear codes have been an interesting subject of study for many years.
Recently, linear codes with few weights have been constructed and extensively
studied. In this paper, for an odd prime p, a class of three-weight linear
codes over Fp are constructed. The weight distributions of the linear codes are
settled. These codes have applications in authentication codes, association
schemes and data storage systems.


Entanglement detection via some classes of measurements

  Based on the mutually unbiased bases, the mutually unbiased measurements and
the general symmetric informationally complete positive-operator-valued
measures, we propose three separability criteria for $d$-dimensional bipartite
quantum systems, which are more powerful than the corresponding ones introduced
in [C. Spengler, M. Huber, S. Brierley, T. Adaktylos, and B.C. Hiesmayr, Phys.
Rev. A \textbf{86}, 022311 (2012); B. Chen, T. Ma, and S.M. Fei, Phys. Rev. A
\textbf{89}, 064302 (2014); B. Chen, T. Li, and S.M. Fei, arXiv:1406.7820v1
[quant-ph] (2014)]. Some states such as Werner states and Bell-diagonal states
are used to further illustrate the efficiency of the presented criteria.


A class of three-weight and five-weight linear codes

  Recently, linear codes with few weights have been widely studied, since they
have applications in data storage systems, communication systems and consumer
electronics. In this paper, we present a class of three-weight and five-weight
linear codes over Fp, where p is an odd prime and Fp denotes a finite field
with p elements. The weight distributions of the linear codes constructed in
this paper are also settled. Moreover, the linear codes illustrated in the
paper may have applications in secret sharing schemes.


A class of cyclotomic linear codes and their generalized Hamming weights

  Firstly, we give a formula on the generalized Hamming weight of linear codes
constructed generically by defining sets. Secondly, by choosing properly the
defining set we obtain a class of cyclotomic linear codes and then present two
alternative formulas to calculate their generalized Hamming weights. Lastly, we
determine their weight distribution and generalized Hamming weights partially.
Especially, we solved the generalized Hamming weights completely in one case.


Weight hierarchy of a class of linear codes relating to non-degenerate
  quadratic forms

  In this paper, we discuss the generalized Hamming weights of a class of
linear codes associated with non-degenerate quadratic forms. In order to do so,
we study the quadratic forms over subspaces of finite field and obtain some
interesting results about subspaces and their dual spaces. On this basis, we
solve all the generalized Hamming weights of these linear codes.


Bayesian method for inferring the impact of geographical distance on
  intensity of communication

  Both theoretical models and empirical findings suggest that the intensity of
communication among groups of people declines with their degree of geographical
separation. There is some evidence that rather than decaying uniformly with
distance, the intensity of communication might decline at different rates for
shorter and longer distances. Using Bayesian LASSO for model selection, we
introduce a statistical model for estimating the rate of communication decline
with geographic distance that allows for discontinuities in this rate. We apply
our method to an anonymized mobile phone communication dataset. Our results are
potentially useful in settings where understanding social and spatial mixing of
people is important, such as in cluster randomized trials design.


Upper bound of the fully entangled fraction

  We study the fully entangled fraction of quantum states. An upper bound is
obtained for arbitrary dimensional bipartite systems. This bound is shown to be
exact for the case of two-qubit systems. An inequality related the fully
entangled fraction of two qubits in a three-qubit mixed state has been also
presented.


A Note on Normal Forms of Quantum States and Separability

  We study the normal form of multipartite density matrices. It is shown that
the correlation matrix (CM) separability criterion can be improved from the
normal form we obtained under filtering transformations. Based on CM criterion
the entanglement witness is further constructed in terms of local orthogonal
observables for both bipartite and multipartite systems.


Bound of Entanglement of Assistance and Monogamy Constraints

  We investigate the entanglement of assistance which quantifies capabilities
of producing pure bipartite entangled states from a pure tripartite state. The
lower bound and upper bound of entanglement of assistance are obtained. In the
light of the upper bound, monogamy constraints are proved for arbitrary n-qubit
states.


On Estimation of Fully Entangled Fraction

  We study the fully entangled fraction (FEF) of arbitrary mixed states. New
upper bounds of FEF are derived. These upper bounds make complements on the
estimation of the value of FEF. For weakly mixed quantum states, an upper bound
is shown to be very tight to the exact value of FEF.


Bipartite Bell Inequality and Maximal Violation

  We present new bell inequalities for arbitrary dimensional bipartite quantum
systems. The maximal violation of the inequalities is computed. The Bell
inequality is capable of detecting quantum entanglement of both pure and mixed
quantum states more effectively.


Bell inequalities for multipartite qubit quantum systems and their
  maximal violation

  We present a set of Bell inequalities for multiqubit quantum systems. These
Bell inequalities are shown to be able to detect multiqubit entanglement better
than previous Bell inequalities such as Werner-Wolf-Zukowski- Brukner ones.
Computable formulas are presented for calculating the maximal violations of
these Bell inequalities for any multiqubit states.


On maximum Estrada indices of bipartite graphs with some given
  parameters

  The Estrada index of a graph $G$ is defined as
$EE(G)=\sum_{i=1}^ne^{\lambda_i}$, where $\lambda_1,$ $ \lambda_2,\ldots,
\lambda_n$ are the eigenvalues of the adjacency matrix of $G$. In this paper,
we characterize the unique bipartite graph with maximum Estrada index among
bipartite graphs with given matching number and given vertex-connectivity,
edge-connectivity, respectively.


Configurational electronic entropy and the phase diagram of
  mixed-valence oxides: the case of Li$_x$FePO$_4$

  We demonstrate that configurational electronic entropy, previously neglected,
in {\it ab initio} thermodynamics of materials can qualitatively modify the
finite-temperature phase stability of mixed-valence oxides. While
transformations from low-T ordered or immiscible states are almost always
driven by configurational disorder (i.e. random occupation of lattice sites by
multiple species), in FePO$_4$--LiFePO$_4$ the formation of a solid solution is
almost entirely driven by electronic, rather than ionic configurational
entropy. We argue that such an electronic entropic mechanism may be relevant to
most other mixed-valence systems.


Hölder Continuity of the Solution for a Class of Nonlinear SPDE
  Arising from One Dimensional Superprocesses

  The H\"older continuity of the solution to a nonlinear stochastic partial
differential equation arising from one dimensional super process is obtained.
It is proved that the H\"older exponent in time variable is as close as to 1/4,
improving the result of 1/10 in a recent paper by Li et al [3]. The method is
to use the Malliavin calculus. The H\"older continuity in spatial variable x of
exponent 1/2 is also obtained by using this new approach. This H\"older
continuity result is sharp since the corresponding linear heat equation has the
same H\"older continuity.


Entanglement detection and lower bound of convex-roof extension of
  negativity

  We present a set of inequalities based on mean values of quantum mechanical
observables nonlinear entanglement witnesses for bipartite quantum systems.
These inequalities give rise to sufficient and necessary conditions for
separability of all bipartite pure states and even some mixed states. In terms
of these mean values of quantum mechanical observables a measurable lower bound
of the convex-roof extension of the negativity is derived.


Unextendible maximally entangled bases in dxd

  We investigate the unextendible maximally entangled bases in
$\mathbb{C}^{d}\bigotimes\mathbb{C}^{d}$ and present a $30$-number UMEB
construction in $\mathbb{C}^{6}\bigotimes\mathbb{C}^{6}$. For higher
dimensional case, we show that for a given $N$-number UMEB in
$\mathbb{C}^{d}\bigotimes\mathbb{C}^{d}$, there is a $\widetilde{N}$-number,
$\widetilde{N}=(qd)^2-(d^2-N)$, UMEB in
$\mathbb{C}^{qd}\bigotimes\mathbb{C}^{qd}$ for any $q\in\mathbb{N}$. As an
example, for $\mathbb{C}^{12n}\bigotimes\mathbb{C}^{12n}$ systems, we show that
there are at least two sets of UMEBs which are not equivalent.


Time optimal quantum control of two-qubit systems

  We study the optimal quantum control of heteronuclear two-qubit systems
described by a Hamiltonian containing both nonlocal internal drift and local
control terms. We derive an explicit formula to compute the minimum time
required to steer the system from an initial state to a specified final state.
As applications the minimal time to implement Controlled-NOT gate, SWAP gate
and Controlled-U gate is calculated in detail. The experimental realizations of
these quantum gates are explicitly presented.


Geometry of Quantum Computation with Qutrits

  Determining the quantum circuit complexity of a unitary operation is an
important problem in quantum computation. By using the mathematical techniques
of Riemannian geometry, we investigate the efficient quantum circuits in
quantum computation with $n$ qutrits. We show that the optimal quantum circuits
are essentially equivalent to the shortest path between two points in a certain
curved geometry of $SU(3^n)$. As an example, three-qutrit systems are
investigated in detail.


On the dynamics of a family of renormalization transformations

  We study the family of renormalization transformations of the generalized
$d$--dimensional diamond hierarchical Potts model in statistical mechanic and
prove that their Julia sets and non-escaping loci are always connected, where
$d\geq 2$. In particular, we prove that their Julia sets can never be a
Sierpi\'{n}ski carpet if the parameter is real. We show that the Julia set is a
quasicircle if and only if the parameter lies in the unbounded capture domain
of these models. Moreover, the asymptotic formula of the Hausdorff dimension of
the Julia set is calculated as the parameter tends to infinity.


Towards Grothendieck Constants and LHV Models in Quantum Mechanics

  We adopt a continuous model to estimate the Grothendieck constants. An
analytical formula to compute the lower bounds of Grothendieck constants has
been explicitly derived for arbitrary orders, which improves previous bounds.
Moreover, our lower bound of the Grothendieck constant of order three gives a
refined bound of the threshold value for the nonlocality of the two-qubit
Werner states.


Quantum Nonlocality of Arbitrary Dimensional Bipartite States

  We study the nonlocality of arbitrary dimensional bipartite quantum states.
By computing the maximal violation of a set of multi-setting Bell inequalities,
an analytical and computable lower bound has been derived for general two-qubit
states. This bound gives the necessary condition that a two-qubit state admits
no local hidden variable models. The lower bound is shown to be better than
that from the CHSH inequality in judging the nonlocality of some quantum
states. The results are generalized to the case of high dimensional quantum
states, and a sufficient condition for detecting the non-locality has been
presented.


On the Hessian of Shape Matching Energy

  In this technical report we derive the analytic form of the Hessian matrix
for shape matching energy. Shape matching is a useful technique for meshless
deformation, which can be easily combined with multiple techniques in real-time
dynamics. Nevertheless, it has been rarely applied in scenarios where implicit
integrators are required, and hence strong viscous damping effect, though
popular in simulation systems nowadays, is forbidden for shape matching. The
reason lies in the difficulty to derive the Hessian matrix of the shape
matching energy. Computing the Hessian matrix correctly, and stably, is the key
to more broadly application of shape matching in implicitly-integrated systems.


Component-Enhanced Chinese Character Embeddings

  Distributed word representations are very useful for capturing semantic
information and have been successfully applied in a variety of NLP tasks,
especially on English. In this work, we innovatively develop two
component-enhanced Chinese character embedding models and their bigram
extensions. Distinguished from English word embeddings, our models explore the
compositions of Chinese characters, which often serve as semantic indictors
inherently. The evaluations on both word similarity and text classification
demonstrate the effectiveness of our models.


A Unified Stochastic Particle Bhatnagar-Gross-Krook Method for
  Multiscale Gas Flows

  The stochastic particle method based on Bhatnagar-Gross-Krook (BGK) or
ellipsoidal statistical BGK (ESBGK) model approximates the pairwise collisions
in the Boltzmann equation using a relaxation process. Therefore, it is more
efficient to simulate gas flows at small Knudsen numbers than the counterparts
based on the original Boltzmann equation, such as the Direct Simulation Monte
Carlo (DSMC) method. However, the traditional stochastic particle BGK method
decouples the molecular motions and collisions in analogy to the DSMC method,
and hence its transport properties deviate from physical values as the time
step increases. This defect significantly affects its computational accuracy
and efficiency for the simulation of multiscale flows, especially when the
transport processes in the continuum regime is important. In the present paper,
we propose a unified stochastic particle ESBGK (USP-ESBGK) method by combining
the molecular convection and collision effects. In the continuum regime, the
proposed method can be applied using large temporal-spatial discretization and
approaches to the Navier-Stokes solutions accurately. Furthermore, it is
capable to simulate both the small scale non-equilibrium flows and large scale
continuum flows within a unified framework efficiently and accurately. The
applications of USP-ESBGK method to a variety of benchmark problems, including
Couette flow, thermal Couette flow, Poiseuille flow, Sod tube flow, cavity
flow, and flow through a slit, demonstrated that it is a promising tool to
simulate multiscale gas flows ranging from rarefied to continuum regime.


Separability of Tripartite Quantum Systems

  We investigate the separability of arbitrary dimensional tripartite sys-
tems. By introducing a new operator related to transformations on the
subsystems a necessary condition for the separability of tripartite systems is
presented.


Zonal polynomials and hypergeometric functions of quaternion matrix
  argument

  We define zonal polynomials of quaternion matrix argument and deduce some
important formulae of zonal polynomials and hypergeometric functions of
quaternion matrix argument. As an application, we give the distributions of the
largest and smallest eigenvalues of a quaternion central Wishart matrix
$W\sim\mathbb{Q}W(n,\Sigma)$, respectively.


A graphical method to calculate Selmer groups of several families of
  non-CM elliptic curves

  In this paper, we extend the ideas of Feng [F1], Feng-Xiong [FX] and
Faulkner-James [FJ] to calculate the Selmer groups of elliptic curves $ y^{2} =
x (x + \varepsilon p D) (x + \epsilon q D). $


A Note on Fully Entangled Fraction

  We investigate the general characters of fully entangled fraction for quantum
states. The fully entangled fraction of Isotropic states and Werner states are
analytically computed.


