Global stability of prey-taxis-Navier-Stokes system

  In this paper, we are concerned with the following prey-taxis system with
fluid surrounding describing by the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations in a
bounded domain with smooth boundary. We show that it has global classical
solutions and give decay properties of these solutions.


Determining the order of SU(3) deconfining phase transition

  An effective spin model for the finite temperature non-abelian lattice gauge
theory is derived. The outcome is the surprising result that only nearest
neighbor coupling survives, thus confirming the well known numerical results
that the deconfining phase transition of the (3+1)-dimensional $SU(3)$ pure
gauge theory is first order.


Modified Futaki invariant and equivariant Riemann-Roch formula

  In this paper, we give a new version of the modified Futaki invariant for a
test configuration associated to the soliton action on a Fano manifold. Our
version will naturally come from toric test configurations defined by Donaldson
for toric manifolds. As an application, we show that the modified $K$-energy is
proper for toric invariant K\"ahler potentials on a toric Fano manifold.


General Monogamy Relation between Information-Theoretic Contextuality
  Inequalities

  We show that the perfect commutation graph is the sufficient tight condition
for admitting the noncontextual description of each observable set satisfying
it in the yes-no question scenario. With this condition, we propose a method
for proving the monogamy relation between two informationtheoretic
contextuality inequalities by decomposing the total commutation graph into
perfect subgraphs. The results offer a powerful tool to investigate the
contextuality and to understand quantum information theory. This theoretical
work can be experimentally verified in current laboratorial technology.


Experimental Device-Independent Tests of Classical and Quantum Entropy

  In this paper, we report an experiment about the device-independent tests of
classical and quantum entropy based on a recent proposal [Phys. Rev. Lett. 115,
110501 (2015)], in which the states are encoded on the polarization of a
biphoton system and measured by the state tomography technology. We also
theoretically obtained the minimal quantum entropy for three widely used linear
dimension witnesses. The experimental results agree well with the theoretical
analysis, demonstrating that lower entropy is needed in quantum systems than
that in classical systems under given values of the dimension witness.


A note on the proof of magnetic flux quantization from ODLRO

  It is noticed that the excellent proof of the connection of magnetic flux
quantization and off-diagonal long range order (ODLRO) presented recently by
Nieh, Su and Zhao suffers from an imperfection, namely, the f-factors in the
case of finite translation do not satisfy $f(a)f(b)=f(a+b)$, which was employed
in the proof. A corrected proof is proposed to remedy this point.


Induced Parity-Breaking Term at Finite Chemical Potential and
  Temparature

  We exactly calculated the parity-odd term of the effective action induced by
the fermions in 2+1 dimensions at finite chemical potential and finite
temperature. It shows that gauge invariance is still respected. A more gerneral
class of background configurations is considered. The knowledge of the reduced
1+1 determinant is required in order to draw exact conclusions about the gauge
invariance of the parity-odd term in this latter case.


Quantum computing by pairing trapped ultracold ions

  The superpositional wave function oscillations for finite-time implementation
of quantum algorithms modifies the desired interference required for quantum
computing. We propose a scheme with trapped ultracold ion-pairs being qubits to
diminish the detrimental effect of the wave function oscillations, and apply
the scheme to the two-qubit Grover's search. It can be also found that the
qubits in our scheme are more robust against the decoherence caused by the
environment, and the model is scalable.


Switchable metamaterial reflector/absorber for different polarized
  electromagnetic waves

  We demonstrate a controllable electromagnetic wave reflector/absorber for
different polarizations with metamaterial involving electromagnetic resonant
structures coupled with diodes. Through biasing at different voltages to turn
ON and OFF the diodes, we are able to switch the structure between nearly total
reflection and total absorption of a particularly polarized incident wave. By
arranging orthogonally orientated resonant cells, the metamaterial can react to
different polarized waves by selectively biasing the corresponding diodes. Both
numerical simulations and microwave measurements have verified the performance.


Study on the multi-pass, multi-bunch beam breakup for 9-cell TESLA
  cavities in ERL

  Generally, Energy Recovery Linac (ERL) needs special designed high current
superconducting RF cavities. In this paper, the threshold current of BBU for
compact ERL facilities with 9-cell Tesla type cavities are investigated. The
results show that it is feasible to adopt 9-cell Tesla cavity for compact ERL
test facilities with just a few cavities and beam current around tens mA.


General soliton solutions to a coupled Fokas-Lenells equation

  In this paper, we firstly establish the multi-Hamiltonian structure and
infinite many conservation laws for the vector Kaup-Newell hierarchy of the
positive and negative orders. The first nontrivial negative flow corresponds to
a coupled Fokas-Lenells equation. By constructing a generalized Darboux
transformation and using a limiting process, all kinds of one-soliton solutions
are constructed including the bright-dark soliton, the dark-anti-dark soliton
and the breather-like solutions. Furthermore, multi-bright and multi-dark
soliton solutions are derived and their asymptotic behaviors are investigated.


A volume stability theorem on toric manifolds with positive Ricci
  curvature

  In this short note, we will prove a volume stability theorem which says that
if an n-dimensional toric manifold $M$ admits a $\mathbb{T}^n$ invariant
K\"ahler metric $\omega$ with Ricci curvature no less than 1 and its volume is
close to the volume of $\mathbb{CP}^n$, $M$ is bi-holomorphic to
$\mathbb{CP}^n$.


Cryptanalysis of Song's advanced smart card based password
  authentication protocol

  Song \cite{Song10} proposed very recently a password-based authentication and
key establishment protocol using smart cards which attempts to solve some
weaknesses found in a previous scheme suggested by Xu, Zhu, and Feng
\cite{XZF09}. In this paper, we present attacks on the improved protocol,
showing that it fails to achieve the claimed security goals.


A New visita to the SU(N) gauge field confinement

  Based on our exact effective spin model, the zero temperature $SU(N)$ gauge
field confinement has been studied by the deconfinement-confinement phase
transition order parameter, i.e. the Wilson line, rather than the quark
antiquark potential. The procedure would allow one to study the confinement in
the true continuum limit. For the $(1+1)$ $SU(2)$ gauge field, the confinement
and a linear zero temperature Polyakov quark antiquark potential were shown. It
is also shown, for the first time, that the Polyakov and Wilson potentials are
identical.


Low Transverse Momentum Heavy Quark Pair Production to Probe Gluon
  Tomography

  We derive the transverse momentum dependent (TMD) factorization for heavy
quark pair production in deep inelastic scattering, where the total transverse
momentum is much smaller than the invariant mass of the pair. The factorization
is demonstrated at one-loop order, in both Ji-Ma-Yuan and Collins-11 schemes
for the TMD definitions, and the hard factors are calculated accordingly. Our
result provides a solid theoretical foundation for the phenomenological
investigations of the gluon TMDs in this process, and can be extended to other
similar hard processes, including dijet (di-hadron) production in DIS.


Asymptotic Composite Estimation

  Composition methodologies in the current literature are mainly to promote
estimation efficiency via direct composition, either, of initial estimators or
of objective functions. In this paper, composite estimation is investigated for
both estimation efficiency and bias reduction. To this end, a novel method is
proposed by utilizing a regression relationship between initial estimators and
values of model-independent parameter in an asymptotic sense. The resulting
estimators could have smaller limiting variances than those of initial
estimators, and for nonparametric regression estimation, could also have faster
convergence rate than the classical optimal rate that the corresponding initial
estimators can achieve. The simulations are carried out to examine its
performance in finite sample situations.


Looking for the gluon condensation signature in proton using the Earth
  limb gamma-ray spectra

  A new type of gamma ray spectrum is predicted in a general hadronic framework
if considering the gluon condensation effects in proton. The result presents
the power-law with a sharp break in the gamma ray spectra at the TeV-band. We
suggest to probe this GC-signature in the Earth limb gamma-ray spectra using
the DArk Matter Particle Explorer and the CALorimetric Electron Telescope on
orbit.


Motion Control on Bionic Eyes: A Comprehensive Review

  Biology can provide biomimetic components and new control principles for
robotics. Developing a robot system equipped with bionic eyes is a difficult
but exciting task. Researchers have been studying the control mechanisms of
bionic eyes for many years and considerable models are available. In this
paper, control model and its implementation on robots for bionic eyes are
reviewed, which covers saccade, smooth pursuit, vergence, vestibule-ocular
reflex (VOR), optokinetic reflex (OKR) and eye-head coordination. What is more,
some problems and possible solutions in the field of bionic eyes are discussed
and analyzed. This review paper can be used as a guide for researchers to
identify potential research problems and solutions of the bionic eyes' motion
control.


High-power mid-infrared frequency comb source based on a femtosecond
  Er:fiber oscillator

  We report on a high-power mid-infrared frequency comb source based on a
femtosecond Er:fiber oscillator with a stabilized repetition rate at 250 MHz.
The mid-infrared frequency comb is produced through difference frequency
generation in a periodically poled MgO-doped lithium niobate crystal. The
output power is about 120 mW with a pulse duration of about 80 fs, and spectrum
coverage from 2.9 to 3.6 um. The coherence properties of the produced
high-power broadband mid-infrared frequency comb are maintained, which was
verified by heterodyne measurements. As the first application, the spectrum of
a ~200 ppm methane-air mixture in a short 20 cm glass cell at ambient
atmospheric pressure and temperature was measured.


Real-time dual frequency comb spectroscopy in the near infrared

  We use two femtosecond Erbium-doped fiber lasers with slightly different
repetition rates to perform a modern type of Fourier transform spectroscopy
without moving parts. The measurements are done in real time, and it takes less
than 50 microseconds. We work with somewhat different spectral outputs from two
Erbium-doped fiber lasers and employ spectral filtering based on a 2f-2f
grating setup to select the common spectral region of interest, thereby
increasing the signal-to-noise ratio. The interferogram is taken with a 20 cm
long gas cell, containing a mixture of acetylene and air at atmospheric
pressure, and is fast-Fourier-transformed to obtain the broadband spectral
fingerprint of the gas.


Tailoring exciton dynamics by elastic strain-gradient in semiconductors

  As device miniaturization approaches the atomic limit, it becomes highly
desirable to exploit novel paradigms for tailoring electronic structures and
carrier dynamics in materials. Elastic strain can in principle be applied to
achieve reversible and fast control of such properties, but it remains a great
challenge to create and utilize precisely controlled inhomogeneous deformation
in semiconductors. Here, we take a combined experimental and theoretical
approach to demonstrate that elastic strain-gradient can be created
controllably and reversibly in ZnO micro/nanowires. In particular, we show that
the inhomogeneous strain distribution creates an effective field that
fundamentally alters the dynamics of the neutral excitons. As the basic
principles behind these results are quite generic and applicable to most
semiconductors, this work points to a novel route to a wide range of
applications in electronics, optoelectronics, and photochemistry.


Single Photon Source Driver Designed in ASIC

  The single photon source is an important part of the quantum key distribution
(QKD) system. At present, the single photon source is large in size and complex
in structure for a lot of discrete components which are used. The
miniaturization of the photon source is the tendency of the QKD system. We
integrate all laser driver electronic module into one single ASIC chip, which
can be used to drive the 1550nm DFB laser in random pulse mode and it can
greatly reduce the volume of the single photon source. We present the design of
the chip named LSD2018 and simulation results before the tape-out. The LSD2018
is fabricated with a 130 nm CMOS process and consists of a discriminator, an
adjustable pulse generator, a bandgap reference, an SPI bus, and an
amplitude-adjustable current pulse driver. The electronic random pulse from the
driver can go 20mA to 120mA in amplitude and 400ps to 4ns in pulse width. The
parameters can be set by an SPI bus.


Creation, manipulation and detection of Majorana fermions with cold
  atoms in optical lattice

  We propose an experimental scheme to simulate the transverse field Ising
model with cold atoms trapped in one-dimensional optical lattice. Majorana
fermions are created at the ends of the optical lattice segment in topological
phase. By controlling the addressing lasers, one can move, fuse and braid them.
We also show that the non-Abelian braiding statistics of Majorana fermions can
be demonstrated unambiguously through the construction of two braiding
operations and distinguishing the resulting two output orthogonal collective
spin states. A nice feature of the scheme is that the strong fluorescence
provided by the collective spin state can be readily detected in experiment.


Shear-Exfoliated Phosphorene for Rechargeable Nanoscale Battery

  Discovery of atomically thin black phosphorus (called phosphorene) holds
promise to be used as an alternative two-dimensional material to graphene and
transition metal dichalcogenides especially as an anode material for
lithium-ion batteries (LIBs). However, at present bulk black phosphorus (BP)
still suffers from rapid capacity fading that results in poor rechargeable
performance. Here, for the first time, we use in situ transmission electron
microscopy (TEM) to construct nanoscale phosphorene LIBs and visualize the
capacity fading mechanism in thick multilayer phosphorene by real time
capturing delithiation-induced structural decomposition that reduces electrical
conductivity and thus causes irreversibility of lithiated Li3P phase. We
further demonstrate that few-layer phosphorene successfully circumvents the
structural decomposition and holds superior structural restorability, even
subjected to multi-cycle lithiation/delithiation processes and concomitant huge
volume expansion. This finding affords new experimental insights into
thickness-dependent lithium diffusion kinetics in phosphorene. Additionally, a
scalable liquid-phase shear exfoliation route has been developed to produce
high-quality ultrathin (monolayer or few-layer) phosphorene, only by a
high-speed shear mixer or even a household kitchen blender with the shear rate
threshold, which will pave the way for potential large-scale applications in
LIBs once the rechargeable phosphorene nanoscale batteries can be transferred
to industrialized enlargement in the future.


Breaking the energy-symmetry blockade in magneto-optical rotation

  The magneto-optical polarization rotation effect has prolific applications in
various research areas spanning the scientific spectrum including space and
interstellar research, nano-technology and material science, biomedical
imaging, and sub-atomic particle research. In nonlinear magneto-optical
rotation (NMOR), the intensity of a linearly-polarized probe field affects the
rotation of its own polarization plane while propagating in a magnetized
medium. However, typical NMOR signals of conventional single-beam
$\Lambda-$scheme atomic magnetometers are peculiarly small, requiring
sophisticated magnetic shielding under complex operational conditions. Here, we
show the presence of an energy-symmetry blockade that undermines the NMOR
effect in conventional single-beam $\Lambda-$scheme atomic magnetometers. We
further demonstrate, both experimentally and theoretically, an inelastic
wave-mixing technique that breaks this NMOR blockade, resulting in more than
five orders of magnitude ($>$300,000-fold) NMOR optical signal power spectral
density enhancement never before seen with conventional single-beam
$\Lambda-$scheme atomic magnetometers. This new technique, demonstrated with
substantially reduced light intensities, may lead to many applications,
especially in the field of bio-magnetism and high-resolution low-field magnetic
imaging.


Experimental Implementaton of Dense Coding Using Nuclear Magnetic
  Resonance

  Quantum dense coding has been demonstrated experimentally in terms of quantum
logic gates and circuits in quantum computation and NMR technique. Two bits of
information have been transmitted through manipulating one of the maximally
entangled two-state quantum pair, which is completely consistent with the
original ideal of Bennett-Wiesner proposal. Although information transmission
happens between spins over inter-atomic distance, the scheme of entanglement
transformation and measurement can be used in other processes of quantum
information and quantum computing.


Experimental realization of a highly structured search algorithm

  The highly structured search algorithm proposed by Hogg[Phys.Rev.Lett.
80,2473(1998)] is implemented experimentally for the 1-SAT problem in a single
search step by using nuclear magnetic resonance technique with two-qubit
sample. It is the first demonstration of the Hogg's algorithm, and can be
readily extended to solving 1-SAT problem for more qubits in one step if the
appropriate samples possessing more qubits are experimentally feasible.


Experimental Implementation of Hogg's Algorithm on a Three-Quantum-bit
  NMR Quantum Computer

  Using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) techniques with three-qubit sample, we
have experimentally implemented the highly structured algorithm for the 1-SAT
problem proposed by Hogg. A simplified temporal averaging procedure was
employed to the three-qubit spin pseudo-pure state. The algorithm was completed
with only a single evaluation of structure of the problem and the solutions
were found with probability 100%, which outperform both unstructured quantum
and the best classical search algorithm.


A scheme for generating entangled cluster state of atomic ensembles

  It was shown in Ref.[Phys.Rev.A 77,045802(2008)] that the dynamics of a
control atom and an atomic sample interacting dispersively with a cavity can be
discribed by the Jaynes-Cummings model and the collective mode of the atomic
sample can be analogous with a bosonic mode. Here, by analogizing the behaviour
of the atomic sample with the one of the cavity, we propose a scheme to
generate cluster states of atomic ensembles by Cavity QED.


The 1.375 Approximation Algorithm for Sorting by Transpositions Can Run
  in $O(n\log n)$ Time

  Sorting a Permutation by Transpositions (SPbT) is an important problem in
Bioinformtics. In this paper, we improve the running time of the best known
approximation algorithm for SPbT. We use the permutation tree data structure of
Feng and Zhu and improve the running time of the 1.375 Approximation Algorithm
for SPbT of Elias and Hartman to $O(n\log n)$. The previous running time of EH
algorithm was $O(n^2)$.


Adaptive Scheduling of Data Paths using Uppaal Tiga

  We apply Uppaal Tiga to automatically compute adaptive scheduling strategies
for an industrial case study dealing with a state-of-the-art image processing
pipeline of a printer. As far as we know, this is the first application of
timed automata technology to an industrial scheduling problem with uncertainty
in job arrivals.


Modelling Clock Synchronization in the Chess gMAC WSN Protocol

  We present a detailled timed automata model of the clock synchronization
algorithm that is currently being used in a wireless sensor network (WSN) that
has been developed by the Dutch company Chess. Using the Uppaal model checker,
we establish that in certain cases a static, fully synchronized network may
eventually become unsynchronized if the current algorithm is used, even in a
setting with infinitesimal clock drifts.


Discussion for the Solutions of Dyson-Schwinger Equations at m>0 in QED3

  In the case of nonzero fermion mass, within a range of Ansatze for the full
fermion-boson vertex, we show that Dyson-Schwinger equation for the fermion
propagator in QED3 has two qualitatively distinct dynamical chiral symmetry
breaking solutions. As the fermion mass increases and reaches to a critical
value mc, one solution disappears, and the dependence of mc on the number of
fermion flavors is also given.


Mutual ionization in atomic collisions near the electronic threshold

  We study mutual ionization in collisions between atomic hydrogen and helium
at impact velocities near the electronic threshold for this process (determined
by the condition that kinetic energy of an equivelocity free electron is
approximately equal to the sum of binding energies of active electrons in the
projectile and target). We show that this process is substantially influenced
by the Coulomb repulsion between the emitted electrons and that the atomic
nuclei are very strongly involved in the momentum balance along the collision
velocity.


Mechanical analysis of a $β=0.09 $ 162.5MHz taper HWR cavity

  One superconducting taper-type half-wave resonator (HWR) with frequency of
162.5MHz, \b{eta} of 0.09 has been developed at Peking University, which is
used to accelerate high current proton ($\sim$ 100mA) and $D^{+}$($\sim$ 50mA).
The radio frequency (RF) design of the cavity has been accomplished. Herein, we
present the mechanical analysis of the cavity which is also an important aspect
in superconducting cavity design. The frequency shift caused by bath helium
pressure and Lorenz force, and the tuning by deforming the cavity along the
beam axis will be analyzed in this paper.


Design study of a beta=0.09 high current superconducting half wave
  resonator

  There's presently a growing demand for high current proton and deuteron
linear accelerators based on superconducting technology to better support
various fields of science. A \b{eta}=0.09 162.5 MHz high current
superconducting half wave resonator (HWR) has been designed at Peking
University to accelerate 100 mA proton beam or 50 mA deuteron beam after the
RFQ accelerating structure. The detailed electromagnetic design, multipacting
simulation, mechanical analysis of the cavity will be given in this paper.


Feynman Rules of Higher-order Poles in CHY Construction

  In this paper, we generalize the integration rules for scattering equations
to situations where higher-order poles are present. We describe the strategy to
deduce the Feynman rules of higher-order poles from known analytic results of
simple CHY-integrands, and propose the Feynman rules for single double pole and
triple pole as well as duplex-double pole and triplex-double pole structures.
We demonstrate the validation and strength of these rules by ample non-trivial
examples.


Flexible Metal Oxide/Graphene Oxide Hybrid Neuromorphic Devices on
  Flexible Conducting Graphene Substrates

  Flexible metal oxide/graphene oxide hybrid multi-gate neuron transistors were
fabricated on flexible graphene substrates. Dendritic integrations in both
spatial and temporal modes were successfully emulated, and spatiotemporal
correlated logics were obtained. A proof-of-principle visual system model for
emulating lobula giant motion detector neuron was investigated. Our results are
of great interest for flexible neuromorphic cognitive systems.


Electromagnetically Induced Transparency with Superradiant and
  Subradiant states

  We construct the electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) by
dynamically coupling a superradiant state with a subradiant state. The
superradiant and subradiant states with enhanced and inhibited decay rates act
as the excited and metastable states in EIT, respectively. Their energy
difference determined by the distance between the atoms can be measured by the
EIT spectra, which renders this method useful in subwavelength metrology. The
scheme can also be applied to many atoms in nuclear quantum optics, where the
transparency point due to counter-rotating wave terms can be observed.


Evolutionary Multitasking for Single-objective Continuous Optimization:
  Benchmark Problems, Performance Metric, and Baseline Results

  In this report, we suggest nine test problems for multi-task single-objective
optimization (MTSOO), each of which consists of two single-objective
optimization tasks that need to be solved simultaneously. The relationship
between tasks varies between different test problems, which would be helpful to
have a comprehensive evaluation of the MFO algorithms. It is expected that the
proposed test problems will germinate progress the field of the MTSOO research.


Learning Spatial Regularization with Image-level Supervisions for
  Multi-label Image Classification

  Multi-label image classification is a fundamental but challenging task in
computer vision. Great progress has been achieved by exploiting semantic
relations between labels in recent years. However, conventional approaches are
unable to model the underlying spatial relations between labels in multi-label
images, because spatial annotations of the labels are generally not provided.
In this paper, we propose a unified deep neural network that exploits both
semantic and spatial relations between labels with only image-level
supervisions. Given a multi-label image, our proposed Spatial Regularization
Network (SRN) generates attention maps for all labels and captures the
underlying relations between them via learnable convolutions. By aggregating
the regularized classification results with original results by a ResNet-101
network, the classification performance can be consistently improved. The whole
deep neural network is trained end-to-end with only image-level annotations,
thus requires no additional efforts on image annotations. Extensive evaluations
on 3 public datasets with different types of labels show that our approach
significantly outperforms state-of-the-arts and has strong generalization
capability. Analysis of the learned SRN model demonstrates that it can
effectively capture both semantic and spatial relations of labels for improving
classification performance.


Efficient feature learning and multi-size image steganalysis based on
  CNN

  For steganalysis, many studies showed that convolutional neural network has
better performances than the two-part structure of traditional machine learning
methods. However, there are still two problems to be resolved: cutting down
signal to noise ratio of the steganalysis feature map and steganalyzing images
of arbitrary size. Some algorithms required fixed size images as the input and
had low accuracy due to the underutilization of the noise residuals obtained by
various types of filters. In this paper, we focus on designing an improved
network structure based on CNN to resolve the above problems. First, we use 3x3
kernels instead of the traditional 5x5 kernels and optimize convolution kernels
in the preprocessing layer. The smaller convolution kernels are used to reduce
the number of parameters and model the features in a small local region. Next,
we use separable convolutions to utilize channel correlation of the residuals,
compress the image content and increase the signal-to-noise ratio (between the
stego signal and the image signal). Then, we use spatial pyramid pooling (SPP)
to aggregate the local features, enhance the representation ability of
features, and steganalyze arbitrary size image. Finally, data augmentation is
adopted to further improve network performance. The experimental results show
that the proposed CNN structure is significantly better than other four methods
such as SRM, Ye-Net, Xu-Net, and Yedroudj-Net, when it is used to detect two
spatial algorithms such as WOW and S-UNIWARAD with a wide variety of datasets
and payloads.


Experimental Test of Complementarity by Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
  Techniques

  We have tested complementarity for the ensemble-averaged spin states of
nuclei $^{13}$C in the molecule of $^{13}$CHCl$_{3}$ by the use of the spin
states of another nuclei $^{1}$H as the path marker. It turns out that the
wave-particle duality holds when one merely measures the probability density of
quantum states, and that the wave- and particle-like behavior is simultaneously
observed with the help of measuring populations and coherence in a single
nuclear magnetic resonance(NMR) experiment. Effects of path-marking schemes and
causes of the appearance and disappearance of the wave behavior are analysed.


Sub-wavelength image manipulating through compensated anisotropic
  metamaterial prisms

  Based on the concept of sub-wavelength imaging through compensated bilayer of
anisotropic metamaterials (AMMs), which is an expansion of the perfect lens
configuration, we propose two dimensional prism pair structures of compensated
AMMs that are capable of manipulating two dimensional sub-wavelength images. We
demonstrate that through properly designed symmetric and asymmetric compensated
prism pair structures planar image rotation with arbitrary angle, lateral image
shift, as well as image magnification could be achieved with sub-wavelength
resolution. Both theoretical analysis and full wave electromagnetic simulations
have been employed to verify the properties of the proposed prism structures.
Utilizing the proposed AMM prisms, flat optical image of objects with
sub-wavelength features can be projected and magnified to wavelength scale
allowing for further optical processing of the image by conventional optics.


Polarization modulation by tunable electromagnetic metamaterial
  reflector/absorber

  We propose a polarization modulation scheme of electromagnetic (EM) waves
through reflection of a tunable metamaterial reflector/absorber. By
constructing the metamaterial with resonant unit cells coupled by diodes, we
demonstrate that the EM reflections for orthogonal polarized incident waves can
be tuned independently by adjusting the bias voltages on the corresponding
diodes. Owing to this feature, the reflected EM waves can be electrically
controlled to a linear polarization with continuously tunable azimuth angle
from 0o to 90o at the resonant frequency, or an elliptical polarization with
tunable azimuth angle of the major axis when off the resonant frequency. The
proposed property has been verified through both numerical simulations and
experimental measurements at microwave band, which enables us to electrically
modulate the polarization state of EM waves flexibly.


Probing Half-odd Topological Number with Cold Atoms in a Non-Abelian
  Optical Lattice

  We propose an experimental scheme to probe the contribution of a single Dirac
cone to the Hall conductivity as half-odd topological number sequence. In our
scheme, the quantum anomalous Hall effect as in graphene is simulated with cold
atoms trapped in an optical lattice and subjected to a laser-induced
non-Abelian gauge field. By tuning the laser intensity to change the gauge
flux, the energies of the four Dirac points in the first Brillouin zone are
shifted with each other and the contribution of the single Dirac cone to the
total atomic Hall conductivity is manifested. We also show such manifestation
can be experimentally probed with atomic density profile measurements.


A Hop-by-hop Cross-layer Congestion Control Scheme for Wireless Sensor
  Networks

  Congestions in wireless sensor networks (WSNs) could potentially cause packet
loss, throughput impairment and energy waste. To address this issue, a
hop-by-hop cross-layer congestion control scheme (HCCC) built on
contention-based MAC protocol is proposed in this paper. According to MAC-layer
channel information including buffer occupancy ratio and congestion degree of
local node, HCCC dynamically adjusts channel access priority in MAC layer and
data transmission rate of the node to tackle the problem of congestion.
Simulations have been conducted to compare HCCC against closely-related
existing schemes. The results show that HCCC exhibits considerable superiority
in terms of packets loss ratio, throughput and energy efficiency.


Intrinsic spin Hall effect in monolayers of group-VI dichalcogenides: A
  first-principles study

  Using first-principles calculations within density functional theory, we
investigate the intrinsic spin Hall effect in monolayers of group-VI
transition-metal dichalcogenides MX2 (M = Mo, W and X = S, Se). MX2 monolayers
are direct band-gap semiconductors with two degenerate valleys located at the
corners of the hexagonal Brillouin zone. Because of the inversion symmetry
breaking and the strong spin-orbit coupling, charge carriers in opposite
valleys carry opposite Berry curvature and spin moment, giving rise to both a
valley- and a spin-Hall effect. The intrinsic spin Hall conductivity (ISHC) in
p-doped samples is found to be much larger than the ISHC in n-doped samples due
to the large spin-splitting at the valence band maximum. We also show that the
ISHC in inversion-symmetric bulk dichalcogenides is an order of magnitude
smaller compared to monolayers. Our result demonstrates monolayer
dichalcogenides as an ideal platform for the integration of valleytronics and
spintronics.


Strain tuning of topological band order in cubic semiconductors

  We theoretically explore the possibility of tuning the topological order of
cubic diamond/zinc-blende semiconductors with external strain. Based on the
tight-binding model, we analyze the evolution of the cubic semiconductor band
structure under hydrostatic or biaxial lattice expansion, by which a generic
guiding principle is established that lattice \emph{expansion} can induce a
topological phase transition of small band-gap cubic semiconductors via a band
inversion, and further breaking of the cubic symmetry leads to a topological
insulating phase. Using density functional theory calculations, we demonstrate
that a prototype topological trivial semiconductor, InSb, is converted to a
nontrivial topological semiconductor with a 2%-3% biaxial lattice expansion.


Cooperative spontaneous emission of three identical atoms

  We study the influence of the distribution of atoms on the cooperative
spontaneous emission by a simple model of three identical atoms. The effects of
counter rotating terms are included by a unitary transformation method. By
discussing two special cases that the three atoms are arranged as an
equilateral triangle and in a straight line, we find that the superradiance of
the coherent system largely dependent on the homogeneity of the atoms'
distribution. If the atoms distribute symmetrically, the superradiant emission
will be enhanced. Next, we calculate the emission spectra of three identical
atoms under the single-photon state. We find that the distribution of atoms
also has a great impact on the lamb shift and the spectrum. If three atoms are
placed into an equilateral triangle and the same dipole moment is perpendicular
to the plane of the three atoms, the spectrum will degenerate into two peaks
from the three peaks for general case.


