A Survey of Tree Convex Sets Test

  Tree convex sets refer to a collection of sets such that each set in the
collection is a subtree of a tree whose nodes are the elements of these sets.
They extend the concept of row convex sets each of which is an interval over a
total ordering of the elements of those sets. They have been applied to
identify tractable Constraint Satisfaction Problems and Combinatorial Auction
Problems. Recently, polynomial algorithms have been proposed to recognize tree
convex sets. In this paper, we review the materials that are the key to a
linear recognition algorithm.


General Scaled Support Vector Machines

  Support Vector Machines (SVMs) are popular tools for data mining tasks such
as classification, regression, and density estimation. However, original SVM
(C-SVM) only considers local information of data points on or over the margin.
Therefore, C-SVM loses robustness. To solve this problem, one approach is to
translate (i.e., to move without rotation or change of shape) the hyperplane
according to the distribution of the entire data. But existing work can only be
applied for 1-D case. In this paper, we propose a simple and efficient method
called General Scaled SVM (GS-SVM) to extend the existing approach to
multi-dimensional case. Our method translates the hyperplane according to the
distribution of data projected on the normal vector of the hyperplane. Compared
with C-SVM, GS-SVM has better performance on several data sets.


A Novel Model of Working Set Selection for SMO Decomposition Methods

  In the process of training Support Vector Machines (SVMs) by decomposition
methods, working set selection is an important technique, and some exciting
schemes were employed into this field. To improve working set selection, we
propose a new model for working set selection in sequential minimal
optimization (SMO) decomposition methods. In this model, it selects B as
working set without reselection. Some properties are given by simple proof, and
experiments demonstrate that the proposed method is in general faster than
existing methods.


Detecting (Un)Important Content for Single-Document News Summarization

  We present a robust approach for detecting intrinsic sentence importance in
news, by training on two corpora of document-summary pairs. When used for
single-document summarization, our approach, combined with the "beginning of
document" heuristic, outperforms a state-of-the-art summarizer and the
beginning-of-article baseline in both automatic and manual evaluations. These
results represent an important advance because in the absence of cross-document
repetition, single document summarizers for news have not been able to
consistently outperform the strong beginning-of-article baseline.


A Leaf Recognition Algorithm for Plant Classification Using
  Probabilistic Neural Network

  In this paper, we employ Probabilistic Neural Network (PNN) with image and
data processing techniques to implement a general purpose automated leaf
recognition algorithm. 12 leaf features are extracted and orthogonalized into 5
principal variables which consist the input vector of the PNN. The PNN is
trained by 1800 leaves to classify 32 kinds of plants with an accuracy greater
than 90%. Compared with other approaches, our algorithm is an accurate
artificial intelligence approach which is fast in execution and easy in
implementation.


Automated Epilepsy Diagnosis Using Interictal Scalp EEG

  Approximately over 50 million people worldwide suffer from epilepsy.
Traditional diagnosis of epilepsy relies on tedious visual screening by highly
trained clinicians from lengthy EEG recording that contains the presence of
seizure (ictal) activities. Nowadays, there are many automatic systems that can
recognize seizure-related EEG signals to help the diagnosis. However, it is
very costly and inconvenient to obtain long-term EEG data with seizure
activities, especially in areas short of medical resources. We demonstrate in
this paper that we can use the interictal scalp EEG data, which is much easier
to collect than the ictal data, to automatically diagnose whether a person is
epileptic. In our automated EEG recognition system, we extract three classes of
features from the EEG data and build Probabilistic Neural Networks (PNNs) fed
with these features. We optimize the feature extraction parameters and combine
these PNNs through a voting mechanism. As a result, our system achieves an
impressive 94.07% accuracy, which is very close to reported human recognition
accuracy by experienced medical professionals.


A New Approach to Automated Epileptic Diagnosis Using EEG and
  Probabilistic Neural Network

  Epilepsy is one of the most common neurological disorders that greatly impair
patient' daily lives. Traditional epileptic diagnosis relies on tedious visual
screening by neurologists from lengthy EEG recording that requires the presence
of seizure (ictal) activities. Nowadays, there are many systems helping the
neurologists to quickly find interesting segments of the lengthy signal by
automatic seizure detection. However, we notice that it is very difficult, if
not impossible, to obtain long-term EEG data with seizure activities for
epilepsy patients in areas lack of medical resources and trained neurologists.
Therefore, we propose to study automated epileptic diagnosis using interictal
EEG data that is much easier to collect than ictal data. The authors are not
aware of any report on automated EEG diagnostic system that can accurately
distinguish patients' interictal EEG from the EEG of normal people. The
research presented in this paper, therefore, aims to develop an automated
diagnostic system that can use interictal EEG data to diagnose whether the
person is epileptic. Such a system should also detect seizure activities for
further investigation by doctors and potential patient monitoring. To develop
such a system, we extract four classes of features from the EEG data and build
a Probabilistic Neural Network (PNN) fed with these features. Leave-one-out
cross-validation (LOO-CV) on a widely used epileptic-normal data set reflects
an impressive 99.5% accuracy of our system on distinguishing normal people's
EEG from patient's interictal EEG. We also find our system can be used in
patient monitoring (seizure detection) and seizure focus localization, with
96.7% and 77.5% accuracy respectively on the data set.


