A Review on Some Geometric Results of the Smulian s Theorem on Frechet
  Differentiability of Norms

  In this paper, we prove the Smulian s theorem on Frechet differentiability of
norm,and present some of its geometric results concerning the Gateaux and
Frechet differentiability of norm and properties of the allied space and its
dual such as reflexivity and strict convexity.


Random Serial Dictatorship versus Probabilistic Serial Rule: A Tale of
  Two Random Mechanisms

  For assignment problems where agents, specifying ordinal preferences, are
allocated indivisible objects, two widely studied randomized mechanisms are the
Random Serial Dictatorship (RSD) and Probabilistic Serial Rule (PS). These two
mechanisms both have desirable economic and computational properties, but the
outcomes they induce can be incomparable in many instances, thus creating
challenges in deciding which mechanism to adopt in practice. In this paper we
first look at the space of lexicographic preferences and show that, as opposed
to the general preference domain, RSD satisfies envyfreeness. Moreover, we show
that although under lexicographic preferences PS is strategyproof when the
number of objects is less than or equal agents, it is strictly manipulable when
there are more objects than agents. In the space of general preferences, we
provide empirical results on the (in)comparability of RSD and PS, analyze
economic properties, and provide further insights on the applicability of each
mechanism in different application domains.


A Coordinated MDP Approach to Multi-Agent Planning for Resource
  Allocation, with Applications to Healthcare

  This paper considers a novel approach to scalable multiagent resource
allocation in dynamic settings. We propose an approximate solution in which
each resource consumer is represented by an independent MDP-based agent that
models expected utility using an average model of its expected access to
resources given only limited information about all other agents. A global
auction-based mechanism is proposed for allocations based on expected regret.
We assume truthful bidding and a cooperative coordination mechanism, as we are
considering healthcare scenarios. We illustrate the performance of our
coordinated MDP approach against a Monte-Carlo based planning algorithm
intended for large-scale applications, as well as other approaches suitable for
allocating medical resources. The evaluations show that the global utility
value across all consumer agents is closer to optimal when using our algorithms
under certain time constraints, with low computational cost. As such, we offer
a promising approach for addressing complex resource allocation problems that
arise in healthcare settings.


Strategyproof Quota Mechanisms for Multiple Assignment Problems

  We study the problem of allocating multiple objects to agents without
transferable utilities, where each agent may receive more than one object
according to a quota. Under lexicographic preferences, we characterize the set
of strategyproof, non-bossy, and neutral quota mechanisms and show that under a
mild Pareto efficiency condition, serial dictatorship quota mechanisms are the
only mechanisms satisfying these properties. Dropping the neutrality
requirement, this class of quota mechanisms further expands to sequential
dictatorship quota mechanisms. We then extend quota mechanisms to randomized
settings, and show that the random serial dictatorship quota mechanisms (RSDQ)
are envyfree, strategyproof, and ex post efficient for any number of agents and
objects and any quota system, proving that the well-studied Random Serial
Dictatorship (RSD) satisfies envyfreeness when preferences are lexicographic.


Investigating the Characteristics of One-Sided Matching Mechanisms Under
  Various Preferences and Risk Attitudes

  One-sided matching mechanisms are fundamental for assigning a set of
indivisible objects to a set of self-interested agents when monetary transfers
are not allowed. Two widely-studied randomized mechanisms in multiagent
settings are the Random Serial Dictatorship (RSD) and the Probabilistic Serial
Rule (PS). Both mechanisms require only that agents specify ordinal preferences
and have a number of desirable economic and computational properties. However,
the induced outcomes of the mechanisms are often incomparable and thus there
are challenges when it comes to deciding which mechanism to adopt in practice.
In this paper, we first consider the space of general ordinal preferences and
provide empirical results on the (in)comparability of RSD and PS. We analyze
their respective economic properties under general and lexicographic
preferences. We then instantiate utility functions with the goal of gaining
insights on the manipulability, efficiency, and envyfreeness of the mechanisms
under different risk-attitude models. Our results hold under various preference
distribution models, which further confirm the broad use of RSD in most
practical applications.


An agent-based model of an endangered population of the Arctic fox from
  Mednyi Island

  Artificial Intelligence techniques such as agent-based modeling and
probabilistic reasoning have shown promise in modeling complex biological
systems and testing ecological hypotheses through simulation. We develop an
agent-based model of Arctic foxes from Medniy Island while utilizing
Probabilistic Graphical Models to capture the conditional dependencies between
the random variables. Such models provide valuable insights in analyzing
factors behind catastrophic degradation of this population and in revealing
evolutionary mechanisms of its persistence in high-density environment. Using
empirical data from studies in Medniy Island, we create a realistic model of
Arctic foxes as agents, and study their survival and population dynamics under
a variety of conditions.


Convexity of Chebyshev Sets Through Differentiability of Distance
  Function

  In this paper, we study a part of approximation theory that presents the
conditions under which a \Ceby\sev set in a Banach space is convex. To do so,
we use Gateaux differentiability of the distance function.


Characterization and Computation of Equilibria for Indivisible Goods

  We consider the problem of allocating indivisible goods in a way that is
fair, using one of the leading market mechanisms in economics: the competitive
equilibrium from equal incomes. Focusing on two major classes of valuations,
namely perfect substitutes and perfect complements, we establish the
computational properties of algorithms operating in this framework. For the
class of valuations with perfect complements, our algorithm yields a
surprisingly succinct characterization of instances that admit a competitive
equilibrium from equal incomes.


Center vortex model and the G(2) gauge group

  The thick center vortex model is applied to G(2) gauge group to obtain the
potentials between static sources of the fundamental and adjoint
representations. The group G(2) has only one trivial center element and
therefore it does not have any vortices which are defined based on non trivial
center elements. To obtain the potential from the thick center vortex model,
the idea of the vacuum domain structure is used. The intermediate string
tensions from this model are in rough agreement with the G(2) lattice results
and the Casimir ratio. We argue that the SU(3) subgroup of G(2) may be
responsible for the linear potential at the intermediate distances.


Confinement in G(2) Gauge Theories Using Thick Center Vortex Model and
  domain structures

  The thick center vortex model with the idea of using domain structures is
used to calculate the potentials between two G(2) heavy sources in the
fundamental, the adjoint and the 27 dimensional representations. The potentials
are screened at large distances. This behavior is expected from the thick
center vortex model since G(2) has only a trivial center element which makes no
contribution to the average Wilson loop at the large distance regime. A linear
potential is obtained at intermediate distances for all representations. This
behavior can be explained by the thickness of the vortices (domains) and by
defining a flux for the trivial center element of G(2). The role of the SU(3)
subgroup of G(2) in the linear regime is also discussed. The string tensions
are in rough agreement with the Casimir operators of the corresponding
representations.


A Recursive Least Square Method for 3D Pose Graph Optimization Problem

  Pose Graph Optimization (PGO) is an important non-convex optimization problem
and is the state-of-the-art formulation for SLAM in robotics. It also has
applications like camera motion estimation, structure from motion and 3D
reconstruction in machine vision. Recent researches have shown the importance
of good initialization to bootstrap well-known iterative PGO solvers to
converge to good solutions. The state-of-the-art initialization methods,
however, works in low noise or eventually moderate noise problems, and they
fail in challenging problems with high measurement noise. Consequently,
iterative methods may get entangled in local minima in high noise scenarios. In
this paper we present an initialization method which uses orientation
measurements and then present a convergence analysis of our iterative
algorithm. We show how the algorithm converges to global optima in noise-free
cases and also obtain a bound for the difference between our result and the
optimum solution in scenarios with noisy measurements. We then present our
second algorithm that uses both relative orientation and position measurements
to obtain a more accurate least squares approximation of the problem that is
again solved iteratively. In the convergence proof, a structural coefficient
arises that has important influence on the basin of convergence. Interestingly,
simulation results show that this coefficient also affects the performance of
other solvers and so it can indicate the complexity of the problem.
Experimental results show the excellent performance of the proposed
initialization algorithm, specially in high noise scenarios.


