Fast Spammer Detection Using Structural Rank

  Comments for a product or a news article are rapidly growing and became a
medium of measuring quality products or services. Consequently, spammers have
been emerged in this area to bias them toward their favor. In this paper, we
propose an efficient spammer detection method using structural rank of author
specific term-document matrices. The use of structural rank was found effective
and far faster than similar methods.


Unfolding Latent Tree Structures using 4th Order Tensors

  Discovering the latent structure from many observed variables is an important
yet challenging learning task. Existing approaches for discovering latent
structures often require the unknown number of hidden states as an input. In
this paper, we propose a quartet based approach which is \emph{agnostic} to
this number. The key contribution is a novel rank characterization of the
tensor associated with the marginal distribution of a quartet. This
characterization allows us to design a \emph{nuclear norm} based test for
resolving quartet relations. We then use the quartet test as a subroutine in a
divide-and-conquer algorithm for recovering the latent tree structure. Under
mild conditions, the algorithm is consistent and its error probability decays
exponentially with increasing sample size. We demonstrate that the proposed
approach compares favorably to alternatives. In a real world stock dataset, it
also discovers meaningful groupings of variables, and produces a model that
fits the data better.


Integer Low Rank Approximation of Integer matrices

  Integer data sets frequently appear in many applications in sciences and
technology. To analyze these, integer low rank approximation has received much
attention due to its capacity of representing the results in integers
preserving the meaning of the original data sets. To our knowledge, none of
previously proposed techniques developed for real numbers can be successfully
applied, since integers are discrete in nature. In this work, we start with a
thorough review of algorithms for solving integer least squares problems, {and}
then develop a block coordinate descent method based on the integer least
squares estimation to obtain the integer low rank approximation of integer
matrices. The numerical application on association analysis and numerical
experiments on random integer matrices are presented. Our computed results seem
to suggest that our method can find a more accurate solution than other
existing methods for continuous data sets.


PixelSNE: Visualizing Fast with Just Enough Precision via Pixel-Aligned
  Stochastic Neighbor Embedding

  Embedding and visualizing large-scale high-dimensional data in a
two-dimensional space is an important problem since such visualization can
reveal deep insights out of complex data. Most of the existing embedding
approaches, however, run on an excessively high precision, ignoring the fact
that at the end, embedding outputs are converted into coarse-grained discrete
pixel coordinates in a screen space. Motivated by such an observation and
directly considering pixel coordinates in an embedding optimization process, we
accelerate Barnes-Hut tree-based t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding
(BH-SNE), known as a state-of-the-art 2D embedding method, and propose a novel
method called PixelSNE, a highly-efficient, screen resolution-driven 2D
embedding method with a linear computational complexity in terms of the number
of data items. Our experimental results show the significantly fast running
time of PixelSNE by a large margin against BH-SNE, while maintaining the
minimal degradation in the embedding quality. Finally, the source code of our
method is publicly available at https://github.com/awesome-davian/PixelSNE


Outlier Detection for Text Data : An Extended Version

  The problem of outlier detection is extremely challenging in many domains
such as text, in which the attribute values are typically non-negative, and
most values are zero. In such cases, it often becomes difficult to separate the
outliers from the natural variations in the patterns in the underlying data. In
this paper, we present a matrix factorization method, which is naturally able
to distinguish the anomalies with the use of low rank approximations of the
underlying data. Our iterative algorithm TONMF is based on block coordinate
descent (BCD) framework. We define blocks over the term-document matrix such
that the function becomes solvable. Given most recently updated values of other
matrix blocks, we always update one block at a time to its optimal. Our
approach has significant advantages over traditional methods for text outlier
detection. Finally, we present experimental results illustrating the
effectiveness of our method over competing methods.


Understanding Actors and Evaluating Personae with Gaussian Embeddings

  Understanding narrative content has become an increasingly popular topic.
Nonetheless, research on identifying common types of narrative characters, or
personae, is impeded by the lack of automatic and broad-coverage evaluation
methods. We argue that computationally modeling actors provides benefits,
including novel evaluation mechanisms for personae. Specifically, we propose
two actor-modeling tasks, cast prediction and versatility ranking, which can
capture complementary aspects of the relation between actors and the characters
they portray. For an actor model, we present a technique for embedding actors,
movies, character roles, genres, and descriptive keywords as Gaussian
distributions and translation vectors, where the Gaussian variance corresponds
to actors' versatility. Empirical results indicate that (1) the technique
considerably outperforms TransE (Bordes et al. 2013) and ablation baselines and
(2) automatically identified persona topics (Bamman, O'Connor, and Smith 2013)
yield statistically significant improvements in both tasks, whereas simplistic
persona descriptors including age and gender perform inconsistently, validating
prior research.


Hierarchical Clustering of Hyperspectral Images using Rank-Two
  Nonnegative Matrix Factorization

  In this paper, we design a hierarchical clustering algorithm for
high-resolution hyperspectral images. At the core of the algorithm, a new
rank-two nonnegative matrix factorizations (NMF) algorithm is used to split the
clusters, which is motivated by convex geometry concepts. The method starts
with a single cluster containing all pixels, and, at each step, (i) selects a
cluster in such a way that the error at the next step is minimized, and (ii)
splits the selected cluster into two disjoint clusters using rank-two NMF in
such a way that the clusters are well balanced and stable. The proposed method
can also be used as an endmember extraction algorithm in the presence of pure
pixels. The effectiveness of this approach is illustrated on several synthetic
and real-world hyperspectral images, and shown to outperform standard
clustering techniques such as k-means, spherical k-means and standard NMF.


Fast Clustering and Topic Modeling Based on Rank-2 Nonnegative Matrix
  Factorization

  The importance of unsupervised clustering and topic modeling is well
recognized with ever-increasing volumes of text data. In this paper, we propose
a fast method for hierarchical clustering and topic modeling called HierNMF2.
Our method is based on fast Rank-2 nonnegative matrix factorization (NMF) that
performs binary clustering and an efficient node splitting rule. Further
utilizing the final leaf nodes generated in HierNMF2 and the idea of
nonnegative least squares fitting, we propose a new clustering/topic modeling
method called FlatNMF2 that recovers a flat clustering/topic modeling result in
a very simple yet significantly more effective way than any other existing
methods. We implement highly optimized open source software in C++ for both
HierNMF2 and FlatNMF2 for hierarchical and partitional clustering/topic
modeling of document data sets.
  Substantial experimental tests are presented that illustrate significant
improvements both in computational time as well as quality of solutions. We
compare our methods to other clustering methods including K-means, standard
NMF, and CLUTO, and also topic modeling methods including latent Dirichlet
allocation (LDA) and recently proposed algorithms for NMF with separability
constraints. Overall, we present efficient tools for analyzing large-scale data
sets, and techniques that can be generalized to many other data analytics
problem domains.


A High-Performance Parallel Algorithm for Nonnegative Matrix
  Factorization

  Non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) is the problem of determining two
non-negative low rank factors $W$ and $H$, for the given input matrix $A$, such
that $A \approx W H$. NMF is a useful tool for many applications in different
domains such as topic modeling in text mining, background separation in video
analysis, and community detection in social networks. Despite its popularity in
the data mining community, there is a lack of efficient parallel software to
solve the problem for big datasets. Existing distributed-memory algorithms are
limited in terms of performance and applicability, as they are implemented
using Hadoop and are designed only for sparse matrices.
  We propose a distributed-memory parallel algorithm that computes the
factorization by iteratively solving alternating non-negative least squares
(NLS) subproblems for $W$ and $H$. To our knowledge, our algorithm is the first
high-performance parallel algorithm for NMF. It maintains the data and factor
matrices in memory (distributed across processors), uses MPI for interprocessor
communication, and, in the dense case, provably minimizes communication costs
(under mild assumptions). As opposed to previous implementations, our algorithm
is also flexible: (1) it performs well for dense and sparse matrices, and (2)
it allows the user to choose from among multiple algorithms for solving local
NLS subproblems within the alternating iterations. We demonstrate the
scalability of our algorithm and compare it with baseline implementations,
showing significant performance improvements.


MPI-FAUN: An MPI-Based Framework for Alternating-Updating Nonnegative
  Matrix Factorization

  Non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) is the problem of determining two
non-negative low rank factors $W$ and $H$, for the given input matrix $A$, such
that $A \approx W H$. NMF is a useful tool for many applications in different
domains such as topic modeling in text mining, background separation in video
analysis, and community detection in social networks. Despite its popularity in
the data mining community, there is a lack of efficient parallel algorithms to
solve the problem for big data sets.
  The main contribution of this work is a new, high-performance parallel
computational framework for a broad class of NMF algorithms that iteratively
solves alternating non-negative least squares (NLS) subproblems for $W$ and
$H$. It maintains the data and factor matrices in memory (distributed across
processors), uses MPI for interprocessor communication, and, in the dense case,
provably minimizes communication costs (under mild assumptions). The framework
is flexible and able to leverage a variety of NMF and NLS algorithms, including
Multiplicative Update, Hierarchical Alternating Least Squares, and Block
Principal Pivoting. Our implementation allows us to benchmark and compare
different algorithms on massive dense and sparse data matrices of size that
spans for few hundreds of millions to billions. We demonstrate the scalability
of our algorithm and compare it with baseline implementations, showing
significant performance improvements. The code and the datasets used for
conducting the experiments are available online.


Hybrid Clustering based on Content and Connection Structure using Joint
  Nonnegative Matrix Factorization

  We present a hybrid method for latent information discovery on the data sets
containing both text content and connection structure based on constrained low
rank approximation. The new method jointly optimizes the Nonnegative Matrix
Factorization (NMF) objective function for text clustering and the Symmetric
NMF (SymNMF) objective function for graph clustering. We propose an effective
algorithm for the joint NMF objective function, based on a block coordinate
descent (BCD) framework. The proposed hybrid method discovers content
associations via latent connections found using SymNMF. The method can also be
applied with a natural conversion of the problem when a hypergraph formulation
is used or the content is associated with hypergraph edges.
  Experimental results show that by simultaneously utilizing both content and
connection structure, our hybrid method produces higher quality clustering
results compared to the other NMF clustering methods that uses content alone
(standard NMF) or connection structure alone (SymNMF). We also present some
interesting applications to several types of real world data such as citation
recommendations of papers. The hybrid method proposed in this paper can also be
applied to general data expressed with both feature space vectors and pairwise
similarities and can be extended to the case with multiple feature spaces or
multiple similarity measures.


SUSTain: Scalable Unsupervised Scoring for Tensors and its Application
  to Phenotyping

  This paper presents a new method, which we call SUSTain, that extends
real-valued matrix and tensor factorizations to data where values are integers.
Such data are common when the values correspond to event counts or ordinal
measures. The conventional approach is to treat integer data as real, and then
apply real-valued factorizations. However, doing so fails to preserve important
characteristics of the original data, thereby making it hard to interpret the
results. Instead, our approach extracts factor values from integer datasets as
scores that are constrained to take values from a small integer set. These
scores are easy to interpret: a score of zero indicates no feature contribution
and higher scores indicate distinct levels of feature importance.
  At its core, SUSTain relies on: a) a problem partitioning into
integer-constrained subproblems, so that they can be optimally solved in an
efficient manner; and b) organizing the order of the subproblems' solution, to
promote reuse of shared intermediate results. We propose two variants,
SUSTain_M and SUSTain_T, to handle both matrix and tensor inputs, respectively.
We evaluate SUSTain against several state-of-the-art baselines on both
synthetic and real Electronic Health Record (EHR) datasets. Comparing to those
baselines, SUSTain shows either significantly better fit or orders of magnitude
speedups that achieve a comparable fit (up to 425X faster). We apply SUSTain to
EHR datasets to extract patient phenotypes (i.e., clinically meaningful patient
clusters). Furthermore, 87% of them were validated as clinically meaningful
phenotypes related to heart failure by a cardiologist.


