The largest cycles consist by the quadratic residues and Fermat primes

  This paper studies the largest cycles consisted by the quadratic residues
modulo prime numbers. We give some formulae about the maximum length of the
cycles. Especially, the formula for modulo Fermat primes is given.


Note on the Hölder norm estimate of the function $x\sin(1/x)$

  In this paper, we prove the following inequality: for any $x, y>0$, there
holds $$\big|x\sin\frac{1}{x} - y\sin\frac{1}{y} \big| \leq \sqrt{2|x - y|}.$$


Periodicity related to a sieve method of producing primes

  In this paper we consider a slightly different sieve method from
Eratosthenes' to get primes. We find the periodicity and mirror symmetry of the
pattern.


The connection between the Basel problem and a special integral

  By using Fubini theorem or Tonelli theorem, we find that the zeta function
value at 2 is equal to a special integral. Furthermore, We find that this
special integral is two times of another special integral. By using this fact
we obtain the relationship between Genocchi numbers and Bernoulli numbers. And
get some results about Bernoulli polynomials.


The limit of the m-norms of a class of symmetric matrices and its
  applications

  We consider a special symmetric matrix and obtain a similar formula as the
one obtained by Weyl's criterion. Some applications of the formula are given,
where we give a new way to calculate the integral of $\ln\Gamma(x)$ on $[0,1]$,
and we claim that one class of matrices are not Hadamard matrices.


An alternative proof of the Dirichlet prime number theorem

  Dirichlet's theorem on arithmetic progressions called as Dirichlet prime
number theorem is a classical result in number theory. Atle
Selberg\cite{Selberg} gave an elementary proof of this theorem. In this article
we give an alternative proof of it based on a previous result of us. Also we
get an estimation of the prime counting function in the special cases.


An equation about sum of primes with digital sum constraints

  We know that any prime number of form $4s+1$ can be written as a sum of two
perfect square numbers. As a consequence of Goldbach's weak conjecture, any
number great than $10$ can be represented as a sum of four primes. We are
motivated to consider an equation with some constraints about digital sum for
the four primes. And we conclude that the square root of the digital sum of the
four primes will greater than $4$ and will not be a multiple of $3$ if the
equation has solutions. In the proof, we give the method of determining whether
a number is a perfect square.


Security Games with Information Leakage: Modeling and Computation

  Most models of Stackelberg security games assume that the attacker only knows
the defender's mixed strategy, but is not able to observe (even partially) the
instantiated pure strategy. Such partial observation of the deployed pure
strategy -- an issue we refer to as information leakage -- is a significant
concern in practical applications. While previous research on patrolling games
has considered the attacker's real-time surveillance, our settings, therefore
models and techniques, are fundamentally different. More specifically, after
describing the information leakage model, we start with an LP formulation to
compute the defender's optimal strategy in the presence of leakage. Perhaps
surprisingly, we show that a key subproblem to solve this LP (more precisely,
the defender oracle) is NP-hard even for the simplest of security game models.
We then approach the problem from three possible directions: efficient
algorithms for restricted cases, approximation algorithms, and heuristic
algorithms for sampling that improves upon the status quo. Our experiments
confirm the necessity of handling information leakage and the advantage of our
algorithms.


Mitigating the Curse of Correlation in Security Games by Entropy
  Maximization

  In Stackelberg security games, a defender seeks to randomly allocate limited
security resources to protect critical targets from an attack. In this paper,
we study a fundamental, yet underexplored, phenomenon in security games, which
we term the \emph{Curse of Correlation} (CoC). Specifically, we observe that
there are inevitable correlations among the protection status of different
targets. Such correlation is a crucial concern, especially in
\emph{spatio-temporal} domains like conservation area patrolling, where
attackers can surveil patrollers at certain areas and then infer their
patrolling routes using such correlations. To mitigate this issue, we propose
to design entropy-maximizing defending strategies for spatio-temporal security
games, which frequently suffer from CoC. We prove that the problem is \#P-hard
in general. However, it admits efficient algorithms in well-motivated special
settings. Our experiments show significant advantages of max-entropy algorithms
over previous algorithms. A scalable implementation of our algorithm is
currently under pre-deployment testing for integration into FAMS software to
improve the scheduling of US federal air marshals.


Where to Go Next: A Spatio-temporal LSTM model for Next POI
  Recommendation

  Next Point-of-Interest (POI) recommendation is of great value for both
location-based service providers and users. Recently Recurrent Neural Networks
(RNNs) have been proved to be effective on sequential recommendation tasks.
However, existing RNN solutions rarely consider the spatio-temporal intervals
between neighbor check-ins, which are essential for modeling user check-in
behaviors in next POI recommendation. In this paper, we propose a new variant
of LSTM, named STLSTM, which implements time gates and distance gates into LSTM
to capture the spatio-temporal relation between successive check-ins.
Specifically, one-time gate and one distance gate are designed to control
short-term interest update, and another time gate and distance gate are
designed to control long-term interest update. Furthermore, to reduce the
number of parameters and improve efficiency, we further integrate coupled input
and forget gates with our proposed model. Finally, we evaluate the proposed
model using four real-world datasets from various location-based social
networks. Our experimental results show that our model significantly
outperforms the state-of-the-art approaches for next POI recommendation.


Sperm-hybrid micromotor for drug delivery in the female reproductive
  tract

  A sperm-driven micromotor is presented as cargo-delivery system for the
treatment of gynecological cancers. This particular hybrid micromotor is
appealing to treat diseases in the female reproductive tract, the physiological
environment that sperm cells are naturally adapted to swim in. Here, the single
sperm cell serves as an active drug carrier and as driving force, taking
advantage of its swimming capability, while a laser-printed microstructure
coated with a nanometric layer of iron is used to guide and release the sperm
in the desired area by an external magnet and structurally imposed mechanical
actuation, respectively. The printed tubular microstructure features four arms
which release the drug-loaded sperm cell in situ when they bend upon pushing
against a tumor spheroid, resulting in the drug delivery, which occurs when the
sperm squeezes through the cancer cells and fuses with cell membrane. Sperms
also offer higher drug encapsulation capability and carrying stability compared
to other nano and microcarriers, minimizing toxic effects and unwanted drug
accumulation. Moreover, sperms neither express pathogenic proteins nor
proliferate to form undesirable colonies, unlike other cells or microorganisms
do, making this bio-hybrid system a unique and biocompatible cargo delivery
platform for various biomedical applications, especially in gynecological
healthcare.


Targeting and Signaling in Ad Auctions

  Modern ad auctions allow advertisers to target more specific segments of the
user population. Unfortunately, this is not always in the best interest of the
ad platform. In this paper, we examine the following basic question in the
context of second-price ad auctions: how should an ad platform optimally reveal
information about the ad opportunity to the advertisers in order to maximize
revenue? We consider a model in which bidders' valuations depend on a random
state of the ad opportunity. Different from previous work, we focus on a more
practical, and challenging, situation where the space of possible realizations
of ad opportunities is extremely large. We thus focus on developing algorithms
whose running time is independent of the number of ad opportunity realizations.
  We examine the auctioneer's algorithmic question of designing the optimal
signaling scheme. When the auctioneer is restricted to send a public signal to
all bidders, we focus on a well-motivated Bayesian valuation setting in which
the auctioneer and bidders both have private information, and present two main
results: 1. we exhibit a characterization result regarding approximately
optimal schemes and prove that any constant-approximate public signaling scheme
must use exponentially many signals; 2. we present a "simple" public signaling
scheme that serves as a constant approximation under mild assumptions. We then
initiate an exploration on the power of being able to send different signals
privately to different bidders. Here we examine a basic setting where the
auctioneer knows bidders' valuations, and exhibit a polynomial-time private
scheme that extracts almost full surplus even in the worst Bayes Nash
equilibrium. This illustrates the surprising power of private signaling schemes
in extracting revenue.


Mountain building of solid quark stars

  One of the key differences between normal neutron and (bare) quark stars is
relevant to the fact that the former are gravitationally bound while the latter
self-confined unless their masses approach the maximum mass. This difference
results in the possibility that quark stars could be very low massive whereas
neutron stars cannot. Mountains could also be build on quark stars if realistic
cold quark matter is in a solid state, and an alternative estimation of the
mountain building is present. As spinning compact objects with non-axisymmetric
mass distribution will radiate gravitational waves, the equations of states of
pulsars could be constraint by the amplitude of gravitational waves being
dependent on the heights of mountains. We then estimate the maximum mountains
and thus quadrupole moment on solid quark stars, to be consistent with that by
Owen (2005) if the breaking strain is 0.1, addressing that a solid quark star
with mass < 10^{-2} Msun could be `potato-like'. We estimate the gravitational
wave amplitude of solid quark stars with realistic mountains to be order of h0
~ 10^{-27}.


Algorithmic Bayesian Persuasion

  Persuasion, defined as the act of exploiting an informational advantage in
order to effect the decisions of others, is ubiquitous. Indeed, persuasive
communication has been estimated to account for almost a third of all economic
activity in the US. This paper examines persuasion through a computational
lens, focusing on what is perhaps the most basic and fundamental model in this
space: the celebrated Bayesian persuasion model of Kamenica and Gentzkow. Here
there are two players, a sender and a receiver. The receiver must take one of a
number of actions with a-priori unknown payoff, and the sender has access to
additional information regarding the payoffs. The sender can commit to
revealing a noisy signal regarding the realization of the payoffs of various
actions, and would like to do so as to maximize her own payoff assuming a
perfectly rational receiver.
  We examine the sender's optimization task in three of the most natural input
models for this problem, and essentially pin down its computational complexity
in each. When the payoff distributions of the different actions are i.i.d. and
given explicitly, we exhibit a polynomial-time (exact) algorithm, and a
"simple" $(1-1/e)$-approximation algorithm. Our optimal scheme for the i.i.d.
setting involves an analogy to auction theory, and makes use of Border's
characterization of the space of reduced-forms for single-item auctions. When
action payoffs are independent but non-identical with marginal distributions
given explicitly, we show that it is #P-hard to compute the optimal expected
sender utility. Finally, we consider a general (possibly correlated) joint
distribution of action payoffs presented by a black box sampling oracle, and
exhibit a fully polynomial-time approximation scheme (FPTAS) with a bi-criteria
guarantee. We show that this result is the best possible in the black-box model
for information-theoretic reasons.


The Mysteries of Security Games: Equilibrium Computation Becomes
  Combinatorial Algorithm Design

  The security game is a basic model for resource allocation in adversarial
environments. Here there are two players, a defender and an attacker. The
defender wants to allocate her limited resources to defend critical targets and
the attacker seeks his most favorable target to attack. In the past decade,
there has been a surge of research interest in analyzing and solving security
games that are motivated by applications from various domains. This paper
examines security games from a theoretical perspective and provides a unified
view of various security game models. In particular, each security game can be
characterized by a set system $E$ which consists of the defender's pure
strategies, The defender's best response problem can be viewed as a
combinatorial optimization problem over $E$. Our framework captures most of the
basic security game models in the literature, including all the deployed
systems, The set system $E$ arising from various domains encodes standard
combinatorial problems like bipartite matching, maximum coverage, min-cost
flow, packing problems, etc. Our main result shows that equilibrium computation
in security games is essentially a combinatorial problem. In particular, we
prove that, for any set system $E$, the following problems can be reduced to
each other in polynomial time: (0) combinatorial optimization over $E$, (1)
computing the minimax equilibrium for zero-sum security games over $E$, (2)
computing the strong Stackelberg equilibrium for security games over $E$, (3)
computing the best or worst (for the defender) Nash equilibrium for security
games over $E$. Here, by "games over $E$" we mean the class of security games
with arbitrary payoff structures, but a fixed set $E$ of defender pure
strategies. This shows that the complexity of a security game is essentially
determined by the set system $E$.


Algorithmic Persuasion with No Externalities

  We study the algorithmics of information structure design -- a.k.a.
persuasion or signaling -- in a fundamental special case introduced by Arieli
and Babichenko: multiple agents, binary actions, and no inter-agent
externalities. Unlike prior work on this model, we allow many states of nature.
We assume that the principal's objective is a monotone set function, and study
the problem both in the public signal and private signal models, drawing a
sharp contrast between the two in terms of both efficacy and computational
complexity.
  When private signals are allowed, our results are largely positive and quite
general. First, we show polynomial-time equivalence between optimal signaling
and the problem of maximizing the objective function plus an additive function.
This yields an efficient implementation of the optimal scheme when the
objective is supermodular or anonymous. Second, we exhibit a
(1-1/e)-approximation of the optimal private signaling scheme, modulo an
additive loss of $\epsilon$, when the objective function is submodular. These
two results simplify, unify, and generalize results of [Arieli and Babichenko,
2016] and [Babichenko and Barman, 2016], extending them from a binary state of
nature to many states (modulo the additive loss in the latter result). Third,
we consider the binary-state case with a submodular objective, and simplify and
slightly strengthen the result of [Babichenko and Barman, 2016] to obtain a
(1-1/e)-approximation via an explicitly constructed scheme.
  When only a public signal is allowed, our results are negative. First, we
show that it is NP-hard to approximate the optimal public scheme, within any
constant factor, even when the objective is additive. Second, we show that the
optimal private scheme can outperform the optimal public scheme, in terms of
maximizing the sender's objective, by a polynomial factor.


Metal-Silicene Interaction Studied by Scanning Tunneling Microscopy

  Ag atoms have been deposited on 3x3 silicene and R3xR3 silicene films by
molecular beam epitaxy method in ultrahigh vacuum. Using scanning tunneling
microscopy and Raman spectroscopy, we found that Ag atoms do not form chemical
bonds with both 3x3 silicene and R3xR3 silicene films,which is due to
chemically inert surface of silicene. On 3x3 silicene films, Ag atoms mostly
form into stable flat top Ag islands. In contrast, Ag atoms form nanoclusters
and glide on silicene films, suggesting more inert nature. Raman spectroscopy
suggests that there is more sp2 hybridization in R3xR3 than in
R7xR7/3x3silicene films


In-Plane Anisotropies of Polarized Raman Response and Electrical
  Conductivity in Layered Tin Selenide

  The group IV-VI compound SnSe, with an orthorhombic lattice structure, has
recently attracted particular interest due to its unexpectedly low thermal
conductivity and high power factor, showing great promise for thermoelectric
applications. SnSe displays intriguing anisotropic properties due to the
puckered low-symmetry in-plane lattice structure. Low-dimensional materials
have potential advantages in improving the efficiency of thermoelectric
conversion, due to the increased power factor and decreased thermal
conductivity. A complete study of the optical and electrical anisotropies of
SnSe nanostructures is a necessary prerequisite in taking advantage of the
material properties for high performance devices. Here, we synthesize the
single crystal SnSe nanoplates (NPs) by chemical vapor deposition. The angular
dependence of the polarized Raman spectra of SnSe NPs shows anomalous
anisotropic light-mater interaction. The angle-resolved charge transport of the
SnSe NPs expresses a strong anisotropic conductivity behavior. These studies
elucidate the anisotropic interactions which will be of use for future
ultrathin SnSe in electronic, thermoelectric and optoelectronic devices.


Realization of Flat Band with Possible Nontrivial Topology in Electronic
  Kagome Lattice

  The energy dispersion of fermions or bosons vanishes in momentum space if
destructive quantum interference occurs in a frustrated Kagome lattice with
only nearest-neighbour (NN) hopping. A discrete flat band (FB) without any
dispersion is consequently formed, promising emergence of fractional quantum
Hall states (FQHS) at high temperatures. Here, we report experimental
realization of a FB with possible nontrivial topology in an electronic Kagome
lattice on a twisted multilayer silicene. The electrons are localized in the
Kagome lattice due to quantum destructive interference, and thus, their kinetic
energy is quenched, which gives rise to a FB peak in density of states. A
robust and pronounced one-dimensional edge state has been revealed at Kagome
edge, which resides at higher energy than the FB. Our observations of the FB
and the exotic edge state in electronic Kagome lattice open up the possibility
towards the realization of fractional Chern insulators in two-dimensional
materials.


Rediscovering the Galactic outer disk with LAMOST data

  From the derived stellar density profile using LAMOST giant stars, we find
that the Galactic disk does not show truncation or break, but smoothly transit
to the halo from 19 kpc. The scale length of the outer disk is only
$1.6\pm0.1$\,kpc, substantially smaller than previous results. This implies
that the shapes of the inner and outer disk are different. Meanwhile, the disk
flaring is not only found in older populations, but also in younger population.
Moreover, the vertical oscillations of the disk are identified in a wide range
or $R$ from 8 to 14 kpc. We also find that the velocity dispersion profile as a
function of the Galactocentric radius is flat with scale length of
$26.3\pm3.2$\,kpc. We confirm that the radial velocity profile in outer disk is
significantly affected by asymmetric motion. The bar with either a slower or a
faster pattern speed can induce the similar radial asymmetric motion.


ICFVR 2017: 3rd International Competition on Finger Vein Recognition

  In recent years, finger vein recognition has become an important sub-field in
biometrics and been applied to real-world applications. The development of
finger vein recognition algorithms heavily depends on large-scale real-world
data sets. In order to motivate research on finger vein recognition, we
released the largest finger vein data set up to now and hold finger vein
recognition competitions based on our data set every year. In 2017,
International Competition on Finger Vein Recognition(ICFVR) is held jointly
with IJCB 2017. 11 teams registered and 10 of them joined the final evaluation.
The winner of this year dramatically improved the EER from 2.64% to 0.483%
compared to the winner of last year. In this paper, we introduce the process
and results of ICFVR 2017 and give insights on development of state-of-art
finger vein recognition algorithms.


Identification of dangerous error fields in stellarators using Hessian
  matrix method

  Error fields are predominantly attributed to inevitable coil imperfections.
Controlling error fields during coil fabrication and assembly is crucial for
stellarators. Excessively tight coil tolerance increases time and cost, and, in
part, led to the cancellation of NCSX and delay of W7-X. In this paper, we
improve the recently proposed Hessian matrix method to rapidly identify
dangerous coil deviations. Two of the most common figures of merit, magnetic
island size and quasi-symmetry, are analytically differentiated over coil
parameters. By extracting the eigenvectors of the Hessian matrix, we can
directly identify sensitive coil deviations in the order of the eigenvalues.
The new method is applied to the upcoming CFQS configuration. Dangerous
perturbations that enlarge n/m=4/11 islands and deteriorate quasi-axisymmetry
of the magnetic field are successfully determined. The results suggest each
modular coil should have separate tolerance and some certain perturbation
combinations will produce significant error fields. By relaxing unnecessary
coil tolerance, this method will hopefully lead to substantial reduction in
time and cost.


Nonlinear focal modulation microscopy

  Here we report nonlinear focal modulation microscopy (NFOMM) to achieve
super-resolution imaging. Abandoning the previous persistence on minimizing the
size of Gaussian emission pattern by directly narrowing (e.g. Minimizing the
detection pinhole in Airyscan, Zeiss) or by indirectly peeling its outer
profiles (e.g., Depleting the outer emission region in STED, stimulated
emission microscopy) in pointwise scanning scenarios, we stick to a more
general basis------ maximizing the system frequency shifting ability. In NFOMM,
we implement a nonlinear focal modulation by applying phase modulations with
high-intensity illumination, thereby extending the effective spatial-frequency
bandwidth of the imaging system for reconstructing super-resolved images. NFOMM
employs a spatial light modulator (SLM) for assisting pattern-modulated
pointwise scanning, making the system single beam path while achieving a
transverse resolution of 60 nm on imaging fluorescent nanoparticles. While
exploring a relatively simple and flexible system, the imagingperformance of
NFOMM is comparable with STED as evidenced in imaging nuclear pore complexes,
demonstrating NFOMM is a suitable observation tool for fundamental studies in
biology. Since NFOMM is implemented as an add-on module to an existing laser
scanning microscope and easy to be aligned, we anticipate it will be adopted
rapidly by the biological community.


Effects of Oxygen Adsorption on the Surface State of Epitaxial Silicene
  on Ag(111)

  Epitaxial silicene, which is one single layer of silicon atoms packed in a
honeycomb structure, demonstrates a strong interaction with the substrate that
dramatically affects its electronic structure. The role of electronic coupling
in the chemical reactivity between the silicene and the substrate is still
unclear so far, which is of great importance for functionalization of silicene
layers. Here, we report the reconstructions and hybridized electronic
structures of epitaxial 4x4 silicene on Ag(111), which are revealed by scanning
tunneling microscopy and angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy. The
hybridization between Si and Ag results in a metallic surface state, which can
gradually decay due to oxygen adsorption. X-ray photoemission spectroscopy
confirms the decoupling of Si-Ag bonds after oxygen treatment as well as the
relatively oxygen resistance of Ag(111) surface, in contrast to 4x4 silicene
[with respect to Ag(111)]. First-principles calculations have confirmed the
evolution of the electronic structure of silicene during oxidation. It has been
verified experimentally and theoretically that the high chemical activity of
4x4 silicene is attributable to the Si pz state, while the Ag(111) substrate
exhibits relatively inert chemical behavior.


A sample of galaxy pairs identified from the LAMOST spectral survey and
  the Sloan Digital Sky Survey

  A small fraction($<10\%$) of SDSS main sample galaxies(MGs) have not been
targeted with spectroscopy due to the the fiber collision effect. These
galaxies have been compiled into the input catalog of the LAMOST extra-galactic
survey and named as the complementary galaxy sample. In this paper, we
introduce the project and the status of the spectroscopies of the complementary
galaxies in the first two years of the LAMOST spectral survey(till Sep. of
2014). Moreover, we present a sample of 1,102 galaxy pairs identified from the
LAMOST complementary galaxies and SDSS MGs, which are defined as that the two
members have a projected distance smaller than 100 kpc and the recessional
velocity difference smaller than 500 $\rm kms^{-1}$. Compared with the SDSS
only selected galaxy pairs, the LAMOST-SDSS pairs take the advantages of not
being biased toward large separations and therefor play as a useful supplement
to the statistical studies of galaxy interaction and galaxy merging.


Using Social Networks to Aid Homeless Shelters: Dynamic Influence
  Maximization under Uncertainty - An Extended Version

  This paper presents HEALER, a software agent that recommends sequential
intervention plans for use by homeless shelters, who organize these
interventions to raise awareness about HIV among homeless youth. HEALER's
sequential plans (built using knowledge of social networks of homeless youth)
choose intervention participants strategically to maximize influence spread,
while reasoning about uncertainties in the network. While previous work
presents influence maximizing techniques to choose intervention participants,
they do not address three real-world issues: (i) they completely fail to scale
up to real-world sizes; (ii) they do not handle deviations in execution of
intervention plans; (iii) constructing real-world social networks is an
expensive process. HEALER handles these issues via four major contributions:
(i) HEALER casts this influence maximization problem as a POMDP and solves it
using a novel planner which scales up to previously unsolvable real-world
sizes; (ii) HEALER allows shelter officials to modify its recommendations, and
updates its future plans in a deviation-tolerant manner; (iii) HEALER
constructs social networks of homeless youth at low cost, using a Facebook
application. Finally, (iv) we show hardness results for the problem that HEALER
solves. HEALER will be deployed in the real world in early Spring 2016 and is
currently undergoing testing at a homeless shelter.


BENCHIP: Benchmarking Intelligence Processors

  The increasing attention on deep learning has tremendously spurred the design
of intelligence processing hardware. The variety of emerging intelligence
processors requires standard benchmarks for fair comparison and system
optimization (in both software and hardware). However, existing benchmarks are
unsuitable for benchmarking intelligence processors due to their non-diversity
and nonrepresentativeness. Also, the lack of a standard benchmarking
methodology further exacerbates this problem. In this paper, we propose
BENCHIP, a benchmark suite and benchmarking methodology for intelligence
processors. The benchmark suite in BENCHIP consists of two sets of benchmarks:
microbenchmarks and macrobenchmarks. The microbenchmarks consist of
single-layer networks. They are mainly designed for bottleneck analysis and
system optimization. The macrobenchmarks contain state-of-the-art industrial
networks, so as to offer a realistic comparison of different platforms. We also
propose a standard benchmarking methodology built upon an industrial software
stack and evaluation metrics that comprehensively reflect the various
characteristics of the evaluated intelligence processors. BENCHIP is utilized
for evaluating various hardware platforms, including CPUs, GPUs, and
accelerators. BENCHIP will be open-sourced soon.


Two-photon driven Kerr resonator for quantum annealing with
  three-dimensional circuit QED

  We propose a realizable circuit QED architecture for engineering states of a
superconducting resonator off-resonantly coupled to an ancillary
superconducting qubit. The qubit-resonator dispersive interaction together with
a microwave drive applied to the qubit gives rise to a Kerr resonator with
two-photon driving that enables us to efficiently engineer the quantum state of
the resonator such as generation of the Schrodinger cat states for
resonator-based universal quantum computation. Moreover, the presented
architecture is easily scalable for solving optimization problem mapped into
the Ising spin glass model, and thus served as a platform for quantum
annealing. Although various scalable architecture with superconducting qubits
have been proposed for realizing quantum annealer, the existing annealers are
currently limited to the coherent time of the qubits. Here, based on the
protocol for realizing two-photon driven Kerr resonator in three-dimensional
circuit QED (3D cQED), we propose a flexible and scalable hardware for
implementing quantum annealer that combines the advantage of the long coherence
times attainable in 3D cQED and the recently proposed resonator based
Lechner-Hauke-Zoller (LHZ) scheme. In the proposed resonator based LHZ
annealer, each spin is encoded in the subspace formed by two coherent state of
3D microwave superconducting resonator with opposite phase, and thus the
fully-connected Ising model is mapped onto the network of the resonator with
local tunable three-resonator interaction. This hardware architecture provides
a promising physical platform for realizing quantum annealer with improved
coherence.


Mapping the Milky Way with LAMOST III: Complicated spatial structure in
  the outer disc

  We present {complexity} of the Galactic outer disc {by fitting the stellar
volume densities of the red giant branch stars with a two-disc component
model}. {The discs are confirmed to} extend to $R\sim19$\,kpc. The radial
density profile of the discs shows {two breaks at $R\sim11$ and $\sim14$\,kpc,
respectively, which} separate the radial profile into three segments with
different scale lengths of $2.12\pm0.26$, $1.18\pm0.08$, and $2.72$\,kpc at
$R<11$, $11\leq R\leq14$, and $R>14$\,kpc, respectively. The first {break} is
likely due to the sudden drop in the radial profile of the thin disc, which may
be an evidence of the radial migration. {Beyond $14$\,kpc, the thick disc
becomes prominent and the transition from thin to thick disc leads to the
second break.} This implies that the geometrically defined thick disc is more
{radially} extended than the thin disc. This is also supported by the larger
scale length of the thick disc than that of the thin disc. Meanwhile, {the
scale height of the thicker component increases from $0.637_{-0.036}^{+0.056}$
at $R=8$ to $1.284_{-0.079}^{+0.086}$\,kpc at $R=19$\,kpc, showing an intensive
flared disc}. Moreover, rich substructures are displayed in the residuals of
the stellar density. Among them, the substructures $D14+2.0$ and $O14-1.5$ show
a north-south asymmetry, which can be essentially explained by southward
shifting of the thick disc. However, no significant overdensity is found for
the Monoceros ring. Finally, the thick disc shows a ripple-like feature with
unclear origin at $9<R<10.5$\,kpc.


Imitative Follower Deception in Stackelberg Games

  Uncertainty is one of the major challenges facing applications of game
theory. In the context of Stackelberg games, various approaches have been
proposed to deal with the leader's incomplete knowledge about the follower's
payoffs, typically by gathering information from the leader's interaction with
the follower. Unfortunately, these approaches rely crucially on the assumption
that the follower will not strategically exploit this information asymmetry,
i.e. the follower behaves truthfully during the interaction with respect to
their actual payoffs. As we show in this paper, the follower may have strong
incentives to deceitfully imitating the behavior of a different follower type
and, in doing this, benefit significantly from subverting the leader into
choosing a highly suboptimal strategy. This raises a fundamental question: how
to design a leader strategy in the presence of such strategic followers? To
answer this question, we put forward a basic model of Stackelberg games with
(imitative) follower deception and show that the leader is indeed able to
reduce the loss due to follower deception with carefully designed strategies.
We then provide a systematic study of the problem of computing the optimal
leader strategy and draw a relatively complete picture of the complexity
landscape; essentially matching positive and negative complexity results are
provided for natural variants of the model. Our intractability results are in
sharp contrast to the situation with no deception, where the leader's optimal
strategy can be computed in polynomial time, and thus illustrate the intrinsic
difficulty of handling follower deception. Through simulations we also
demonstrate empirically the benefit of considering follower deception.


Magnetic exchange induced Weyl state in a semimetal EuCd2Sb2

  Magnetic Weyl semimetals (WSMs) bearing long-time pursuing are still very
rare. We herein identified magnetic exchange induced Weyl state in EuCd2Sb2, a
semimetal in type IV magnetic space group, via performing high magnetic field
(B) magneto-transport measurements and ab initio calculations. For the A-type
antiferromagnetic (AFM) structure of EuCd2Sb2, external B larger than 3.2 T can
align Eu spins to be fully polarized along the c-axis and consequently drive
the system into a ferromagnetic (FM) state. Measurements up to B ~ 55 T
revealed a striking Shubnikov-de Hass oscillation imposed by a nontrivial Berry
phase. We unveiled a phase transition from a small-gap AFM topological
insulator into a FM WSM in which Weyl points emerged along the {\Gamma}-Z path.
Fermi arcs on (100) and (010) surfaces are also revealed. The results pave a
way towards realization of various topological states in a single material
through magnetic exchange manipulation.


Precision Higgs Physics at CEPC

  The discovery of the Higgs boson with its mass around 125 GeV by the ATLAS
and CMS Collaborations marked the beginning of a new era in high energy
physics. The Higgs boson will be the subject of extensive studies of the
ongoing LHC program. At the same time, lepton collider based Higgs factories
have been proposed as a possible next step beyond the LHC, with its main goal
to precisely measure the properties of the Higgs boson and probe potential new
physics associated with the Higgs boson. The Circular Electron Positron
Collider~(CEPC) is one of such proposed Higgs factories. The CEPC is an
$e^+e^-$ circular collider proposed by and to be hosted in China. Located in a
tunnel of approximately 100~km in circumference, it will operate at a
center-of-mass energy of 240~GeV as the Higgs factory. In this paper, we
present the first estimates on the precision of the Higgs boson property
measurements achievable at the CEPC and discuss implications of these
measurements.


