Faithfulness of the Lawrence representation of braid groups

  The Lawrence representation $L_{n,m}$ is a family of homological
representation of the braid group $B_n$, which specializes to the reduced Burau
and the Lawrence-Krammer representation when $m$ is 1 and 2. In this article we
show that the Lawrence representation is faithful for $m \geq 2$.


A geometric categorification of tensor products of $U_q(sl_2)$-modules

  We give a purely geometric categorification of tensor products of
finite-dimensional simple $U_q(sl_2)$-modules and $R$-matrices on them. The
work is developed in the framework of category of perverse sheaves and the
categorification theorems are understood as consequences of Deligne's theory of
weights.


Expansion formula for complex Monge-Ampère equation along cone
  singularities

  In this paper, we prove the asymptotic expansion of the solutions to some
singular complex Monge-Amp\`ere equation which arise naturally in the study of
the conical K\"ahler-Einstein metric.


Proof of the volume conjecture for Whitehead doubles of a family of
  torus knots

  A technique to calculate the colored Jones polynomials of satellite knots,
illustrated by the Whitehead doubles of knots, is presented. Then we prove the
volume conjecture for Whitehead doubles of a family of torus knots and show
some interesting observations.


A trace formula for the forcing relation of braids

  The forcing relation of braids has been introduced for a 2-dimensional
analogue of the Sharkovskii order on periods for maps of the interval. In this
paper, by making use of the Nielsen fixed point theory and a representation of
braid groups, we deduce a trace formula for the computation of the forcing
order.


General cycling operations in Garside groups

  In this article, we introduce the notion of cycling operations of arbitrary
order in Garside groups, which is a full generalization of the cycling and
decycling operations. Theoretically, this notion together with other related
concepts provides a context in which various definitions and arguments
concerning Garside groups are unified and simplified as well as improved.
Practically, it yields a new algorithm which has a considerably improved
performance on solving the conjugacy problem of reducible braids.


Categorification of integrable representations of quantum groups

  We categorify the highest weight integrable representations and their tensor
products of a symmetric quantum Kac-Moody algebra. As byproducts, we obtain a
geometric realization of Lusztig's canonical bases of these representations as
well as a new positivity result. The main ingredient in the underlying
geometric construction is a class of micro-local perverse sheaves on quiver
varieties.


Extended TQFT arising from enriched multi-fusion categories

  We define a symmetric monoidal (4,3)-category with duals whose objects are
certain enriched multi-fusion categories. For every modular tensor category
$\mathcal{C}$, there is a self enriched multi-fusion category $\mathfrak{C}$
giving rise to an object of this symmetric monoidal (4,3)-category. We
conjecture that the extended 3D TQFT given by the fully dualizable object
$\mathfrak{C}$ extends the 1-2-3-dimensional Reshetikhin-Turaev TQFT associated
to the modular tensor category $\mathcal{C}$ down to dimension zero.


The Quantization of the Relative Cohomology Group

  The paper was removed.


On the Hecke algebras and the colored HOMFLY polynomial

  This paper has been withdrawn since it is identical to the paper
math.QA/0601267. It was posted by mistake.


No embeddings of solenoids into surfaces

  A quick proof of Bing's theorem indicated by the title is given. The proof
also concludes Gumerov's result on covering degrees of solenoids.


Blow-up for a Three Dimensional Keller-Segel Model with Consumption of
  Chemoattractant

  We investigate blow-up properties for the initial-boundary value problem of a
Keller-Segel model with consumption of chemoattractant when the spatial
dimension is three. Through a kinetic reformulation of the Keller-Segel model,
we first derive some higher-order estimates and obtain certain blow-up criteria
for the local classical solutions. These blow-up criteria generalize the
results in [4,5] from the whole space $\mathbb{R}^3$ to the case of bounded
smooth domain $\Omega\subset \mathbb{R}^3$. Lower global blow-up estimate on
$\|n\|_{L^\infty(\Omega)}$ is also obtained based on our higher-order
estimates. Moreover, we prove local non-degeneracy for blow-up points.


Self-mapping Degrees of 3-Manifolds

  For each closed oriented 3-manifold $M$ in Thurston's picture, the set of
degrees of self-maps on $M$ is given.


On the skein polynomial for links

  We give characterizations of the skein polynomial for links (as well as Jones
and Alexander-Conway polynomials derivable from it), avoiding the usual
"smoothing of a crossing" move. As by-products we have characterizations of
these polynomials for knots, and for links with any given number of components.


Modeling The Adaption Rule in Context-aware Systems

  Context awareness is increasingly gaining applicability in interactive
ubiquitous mobile computing systems. Each context-aware application has its own
set of behaviors to react to context modifications. This paper is concerned
with the context modeling and the development methodology for context-aware
systems. We proposed a rule-based approach and use the adaption tree to model
the adaption rule of context-aware systems. We illustrate this idea in an
arithmetic game application.


Adaptive Consensus ADMM for Distributed Optimization

  The alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM) is commonly used for
distributed model fitting problems, but its performance and reliability depend
strongly on user-defined penalty parameters. We study distributed ADMM methods
that boost performance by using different fine-tuned algorithm parameters on
each worker node. We present a O(1/k) convergence rate for adaptive ADMM
methods with node-specific parameters, and propose adaptive consensus ADMM
(ACADMM), which automatically tunes parameters without user oversight.


Atomic-scale visualization of quasiparticle interference on a type-II
  Weyl semimetal surface

  We combine quasiparticle interference simulation (theory) and atomic
resolution scanning tunneling spectro-microscopy (experiment) to visualize the
interference patterns on a type-II Weyl semimetal Mo$_{x}$W$_{1-x}$Te$_2$ for
the first time. Our simulation based on first-principles band topology
theoretically reveals the surface electron scattering behavior. We identify the
topological Fermi arc states and reveal the scattering properties of the
surface states in Mo$_{0.66}$W$_{0.34}$Te$_2$. In addition, our result reveals
an experimental signature of the topology via the interconnectivity of bulk and
surface states, which is essential for understanding the unusual nature of this
material.


Mirror protected Dirac fermions on a Weyl semimetal NbP surface

  The first Weyl semimetal was recently discovered in the NbP class of
compounds. Although the topology of these novel materials has been identified,
the surface properties are not yet fully understood. By means of scanning
tunneling spectroscopy, we find that NbPs (001) surface hosts a pair of Dirac
cones protected by mirror symmetry. Through our high resolution spectroscopic
measurements, we resolve the quantum interference patterns arising from these
novel Dirac fermions, and reveal their electronic structure, including the
linear dispersions. Our data, in agreement with our theoretical calculations,
uncover further interesting features of the Weyl semimetal NbPs already exotic
surface. Moreover, we discuss the similarities and distinctions between the
Dirac fermions here and those in topological crystalline insulators in terms of
symmetry protection and topology.


Quasiparticle interference on type-I and type-II Weyl semimetal
  surfaces: a review

  Weyl semimetals are a new member of the topological materials family,
featuring a pair of singly degenerate Weyl cones with linear dispersion around
the nodes in the bulk, and Fermi arcs on the surface. Depending on whether the
system conserves or violates Lorentz symmetry, Weyl semimetals can be
categorized into two classes. Photoemission spectroscopy measurements have
confirmed the TaAs-class and WTe2-class of Weyl semimetals as type-I and
type-II respectively. This review article aims to elucidate and elaborate on
the basic concepts of Weyl semimetals and quasiparticle interference
experiments on both type-I and type-II Weyl semimetals. The versatile results
which reveal (1) the topological sink effect of the surface carriers, the
unique feature of the Fermi arc state; (2) the weakly bound nature of the Fermi
arc surface state; (3) the orbital dependent scattering channels on the
surface; (4) a mirror symmetry protected surface Dirac cone, are summarily
discussed. Finally, a perspective toward the future applications of
quasiparticle interference techniques on topological materials is presented.


Evaluating the Effectiveness of Health Awareness Events by Google Search
  Frequency

  Over two hundreds health awareness events take place in the United States in
order to raise attention and educate the public about diseases. It would be
informative and instructive for the organization to know the impact of these
events, although such information could be difficult to measure. Here 46 events
are selected and their data from 2004 to 2017 are downloaded from Google
Trend(GT). We investigate whether the events effectively attract the public
attention by increasing the search frequencies of certain keywords which we
call queries. Three statistical methods including Transfer Function Noise
modeling, Wilcoxon Rank Sum test, and Binomial inference are conducted on 46 GT
data sets. Our study show that 10 health awareness events are effective with
evidence of a significant increase in search frequencies in the event months,
and 28 events are ineffective, with the rest being classified as unclear.


On the Hecke algebras and the colored HOMFLY polynomial

  The colored HOMFLY polynomial is the quantum invariant of oriented links in
$S^3$ associated with irreducible representations of the quantum group
$U_q(\mathrm{sl}_N)$. In this paper, using an approach to calculate quantum
invariants of links via cabling-projection rule, we derive a formula for the
colored HOMFLY polynomial in terms of the characters of the Hecke algebras and
Schur polynomials. The technique leads to a fairly simple formula for the
colored HOMFLY polynomial of torus links. This formula allows us to test the
Labastida-Mari\~no-Vafa conjecture, which reveals a deep relationship between
Chern-Simons gauge theory and string theory, on torus links.


On tame embeddings of solenoids into 3-space

  Solenoids are ``inverse limits'' of the circle, and the classical knot theory
is the theory of tame embeddings of the circle into the 3-space. We give some
general study, including certain classification results, of tame embeddings of
solenoids into the 3-space as the ``inverse limits'' of the tame embeddings of
the circle.
  Some applications are discussed. In particular, there are ``tamely'' embedded
solenoids $\Sigma\subset \R^3$ which are strictly achiral. Since solenoids are
non-planar, this contrasts sharply with the known fact that if there is a
strictly achiral embedding $Y\subset \R^3$ of a compact polyhedron $Y$, then
$Y$ must be planar.


Observation of the Adler-Bell-Jackiw chiral anomaly in a Weyl semimetal

  We report the experimental discovery of Adler-Bell-Jackiw chiral anomaly in a
Weyl semimetal crystal.


Drinfeld center of enriched monoidal categories

  We define the Drinfeld center of a monoidal category enriched over a braided
monoidal category, and show that every modular tensor category can be realized
in a canonical way as the Drinfeld center of a self-enriched monoidal category.
We also give a generalization of this result for important applications in
physics.


Reifenberg Flatness of Free Boundaries in Obstacle Problems with VMO
  Ingredients

  We study the obstacle problem with an elliptic operator in divergence form.
We develop all of the basic theory of existence, uniqueness, optimal
regularity, and nondegeneracy of the solutions. These results, in turn, allow
us to begin the study of the regularity of the free boundary in the case where
the coefficients are in VMO.


Cyber Behavior of Microblog Users: Onlies Versus Others

  Much research has been conducted to investigate personality and daily
behavior of these only children ('Onlies') due to the Chinese
one-child-per-family policy, and report the singleton generation to be more
selfish. As Microblog becomes increasingly popular recently in China, we
studied cyber behavior of Onlies and children with siblings ('Others') on Sina
Microblog ('Weibo'), a leading Microblog service provider in China.
Participants were 1792 Weibo users. Their recorded data on Weibo were
downloaded to assess their cyber behaviors. The general results show that (1)
Onlies have a smaller social circle; (2)Onlies are more significantly active on
social platform.


Semisimple and separable algebras in multi-fusion categories

  We give a classification of semisimple and separable algebras in a
multi-fusion category over an arbitrary field in analogy to Wedderben-Artin
theorem in classical algebras. It turns out that, if the multi-fusion category
admits a semisimple Drinfeld center, the only obstruction to the separability
of a semisimple algebra arises from inseparable field extensions as in
classical algebras. Among others, we show that a division algebra is separable
if and only if it has a nonvanishing dimension.


TPC Together with Overlapped Time Domain Multiplexing System Based on
  Turbo Structure

  Overlapped time domain multiplexing (OvTDM) is a novel technique for
utilizing inter-symbol interference (ISI) to benefit a communication system. We
implement the OvTDM technique based on turbo structure and associate a turbo
product code (TPC) to construct a novel coded turbo-structure OvTDM system. Two
schemes of the iterative receiver and soft input and soft output (SISO)
decoding algorithms are presented. Simulation results show the advantage of
structures in this paper. In addition, an attractive transmission rate and
symbol efficiency of the designed system can also be observed.


AISHELL-1: An Open-Source Mandarin Speech Corpus and A Speech
  Recognition Baseline

  An open-source Mandarin speech corpus called AISHELL-1 is released. It is by
far the largest corpus which is suitable for conducting the speech recognition
research and building speech recognition systems for Mandarin. The recording
procedure, including audio capturing devices and environments are presented in
details. The preparation of the related resources, including transcriptions and
lexicon are described. The corpus is released with a Kaldi recipe. Experimental
results implies that the quality of audio recordings and transcriptions are
promising.


A three-dimensional magnetic topological phase

  We use photoemission spectroscopy to discover the first topological magnet in
three dimensions, the material Co$_2$MnGa.


Atomic Scale Visualization of Quantum Interference on a Weyl Semimetal
  Surface by Scanning Tunneling Microscopy/Spectroscopy

  Weyl semimetals may open a new era in condensed matter physics, materials
science and nanotech after graphene and topological insulators. We report the
first atomic scale view of the surface states of a Weyl semimetal (NbP) using
scanning tunneling microscopy/spectroscopy. We observe coherent quantum
interference patterns that arise from the scattering of quasiparticles near
point defects on the surface. The measurements reveal the surface electronic
structure both below and above the chemical potential in both real and
reciprocal spaces. Moreover, the interference maps uncover the scattering
processes of NbP's exotic surface states. Through comparison between
experimental data and theoretical calculations, we further discover that the
scattering channels are largely restricted by the orbital and/or spin texture
of the surface band. The visualization of the scattering processes can help
design novel transport effects and electronics on the topological surface of a
Weyl semimetal.


Boundary-bulk relation in topological orders

  In this paper, we study the relation between an anomaly-free $n+$1D
topological order, which are often called $n+$1D topological order in physics
literature, and its $n$D gapped boundary phases. We argue that the $n+$1D bulk
anomaly-free topological order for a given $n$D gapped boundary phase is
unique. This uniqueness defines the notion of the "bulk" for a given gapped
boundary phase. In this paper, we show that the $n+$1D "bulk" phase is given by
the "center" of the $n$D boundary phase. In other words, the geometric notion
of the "bulk" corresponds precisely to the algebraic notion of the "center". We
achieve this by first introducing the notion of a morphism between two
(potentially anomalous) topological orders of the same dimension, then proving
that the notion of the "bulk" satisfies the same universal property as that of
the "center" of an algebra in mathematics, i.e. "bulk = center". The entire
argument does not require us to know the precise mathematical description of a
(potentially anomalous) topological order. This result leads to concrete
physical predictions.


A New Ensemble Learning Framework for 3D Biomedical Image Segmentation

  3D image segmentation plays an important role in biomedical image analysis.
Many 2D and 3D deep learning models have achieved state-of-the-art segmentation
performance on 3D biomedical image datasets. Yet, 2D and 3D models have their
own strengths and weaknesses, and by unifying them together, one may be able to
achieve more accurate results. In this paper, we propose a new ensemble
learning framework for 3D biomedical image segmentation that combines the
merits of 2D and 3D models. First, we develop a fully convolutional network
based meta-learner to learn how to improve the results from 2D and 3D models
(base-learners). Then, to minimize over-fitting for our sophisticated
meta-learner, we devise a new training method that uses the results of the
base-learners as multiple versions of "ground truths". Furthermore, since our
new meta-learner training scheme does not depend on manual annotation, it can
utilize abundant unlabeled 3D image data to further improve the model.
Extensive experiments on two public datasets (the HVSMR 2016 Challenge dataset
and the mouse piriform cortex dataset) show that our approach is effective
under fully-supervised, semi-supervised, and transductive settings, and attains
superior performance over state-of-the-art image segmentation methods.


Well-posedness and long-time behavior of a non-autonomous
  Cahn-Hilliard-Darcy system with mass source modeling tumor growth

  In this paper, we study an initial boundary value problem of the
Cahn-Hilliard-Darcy system with a non-autonomous mass source term $S$ that
models tumor growth. We first prove the existence of global weak solutions as
well as the existence of unique local strong solutions in both 2D and 3D. Then
we investigate the qualitative behavior of solutions in details when the
spatial dimension is two. More precisely, we prove that the strong solution
exists globally and it defines a closed dynamical process. Then we establish
the existence of a minimal pullback attractor for translated bounded mass
source $S$. Finally, when $S$ is assumed to be asymptotically autonomous, we
demonstrate that any global weak/strong solution converges to a single steady
state as $t\to+\infty$. An estimate on the convergence rate is also given.


Global Existence and Asymptotic Behavior of Solutions to a
  Chemotaxis-Fluid System on General Bounded Domain

  In this paper, we investigate an initial-boundary value problem for a
chemotaxis-fluid system in a general bounded regular domain $\Omega \subset
\mathbb{R}^N$ ($N\in\{2,3\}$), not necessarily being convex. Thanks to the
elementary lemma given by Mizoguchi & Souplet [10], we can derive a new type of
entropy-energy estimate, which enables us to prove the following: (1) for
$N=2$, there exists a unique global classical solution to the full
chemotaxis-Navier-Stokes system, which converges to a constant steady state
$(n_\infty, 0,0)$ as $t\to+\infty$, and (2) for $N=3$, the existence of a
global weak solution to the simplified chemotaxis-Stokes system. Our results
generalize the recent work due to Winkler [15,16], in which the domain $\Omega$
is essentially assumed to be convex.


Long-Range triplet Josephson Current Modulated by the Interface
  Magnetization Texture

  We have investigated the Josephson coupling between two s-wave
superconductors separated by the ferromagnetic trilayers with noncollinear
magnetization. We find that the long-range triplet critical current will
oscillate with the strength of the exchange field and the thickness of the
interface layer, when the interface magnetizations are orthogonal to the
central magnetization. This feature is induced by the spatial oscillations of
the spin-triplet state |\uparrow\downarrow>+|\downarrow\uparrow> in the
interface layer. Moreover, the critical current can exhibit a characteristic
nonmonotonic behavior, when the misalignment angle between interface
magnetization and central ferromagnet increases from 0 to \pi/2. This peculiar
behavior will take place under the condition that the original state of the
junction with the parallel magnetizations is the \pi state.


Trust Exploitation and Attention Competition: A Game Theoretical Model

  The proliferation of Social Network Sites (SNSs) has greatly reformed the way
of information dissemination, but also provided a new venue for hosts with
impure motivations to disseminate malicious information. Social trust is the
basis for information dissemination in SNSs. Malicious hosts judiciously and
dynamically make the balance between maintaining its social trust and selfishly
maximizing its malicious gain over a long time-span. Studying the optimal
response strategies for each malicious host could assist to design the best
system maneuver so as to achieve the targeted level of overall malicious
activities. In this paper, we propose an interaction-based social trust model,
and formulate the maximization of long-term malicious gains of multiple
competing hosts as a non-cooperative differential game. Through rigorous
analysis, optimal response strategies are identified and the best system
maneuver mechanism is presented. Extensive numerical studies further verify the
analytical results.


FlowIntent: Detecting Privacy Leakage from User Intention to Network
  Traffic Mapping

  The exponential growth of mobile devices has raised concerns about sensitive
data leakage. In this paper, we make the first attempt to identify suspicious
location-related HTTP transmission flows from the user's perspective, by
answering the question: Is the transmission user-intended? In contrast to
previous network-level detection schemes that mainly rely on a given set of
suspicious hostnames, our approach can better adapt to the fast growth of app
market and the constantly evolving leakage patterns. On the other hand,
compared to existing system-level detection schemes built upon program taint
analysis, where all sensitive transmissions as treated as illegal, our approach
better meets the user needs and is easier to deploy. In particular, our
proof-of-concept implementation (FlowIntent) captures sensitive transmissions
missed by TaintDroid, the state-of-the-art dynamic taint analysis system on
Android platforms. Evaluation using 1002 location sharing instances collected
from more than 20,000 apps shows that our approach achieves about 91% accuracy
in detecting illegitimate location transmissions.


Iterative Multi-domain Regularized Deep Learning for Anatomical
  Structure Detection and Segmentation from Ultrasound Images

  Accurate detection and segmentation of anatomical structures from ultrasound
images are crucial for clinical diagnosis and biometric measurements. Although
ultrasound imaging has been widely used with superiorities such as low cost and
portability, the fuzzy border definition and existence of abounding artifacts
pose great challenges for automatically detecting and segmenting the complex
anatomical structures. In this paper, we propose a multi-domain regularized
deep learning method to address this challenging problem. By leveraging the
transfer learning from cross domains, the feature representations are
effectively enhanced. The results are further improved by the iterative
refinement. Moreover, our method is quite efficient by taking advantage of a
fully convolutional network, which is formulated as an end-to-end learning
framework of detection and segmentation. Extensive experimental results on a
large-scale database corroborated that our method achieved a superior detection
and segmentation accuracy, outperforming other methods by a significant margin
and demonstrating competitive capability even compared to human performance.


Evolving Boxes for Fast Vehicle Detection

  We perform fast vehicle detection from traffic surveillance cameras. A novel
deep learning framework, namely Evolving Boxes, is developed that proposes and
refines the object boxes under different feature representations. Specifically,
our framework is embedded with a light-weight proposal network to generate
initial anchor boxes as well as to early discard unlikely regions; a
fine-turning network produces detailed features for these candidate boxes. We
show intriguingly that by applying different feature fusion techniques, the
initial boxes can be refined for both localization and recognition. We evaluate
our network on the recent DETRAC benchmark and obtain a significant improvement
over the state-of-the-art Faster RCNN by 9.5% mAP. Further, our network
achieves 9-13 FPS detection speed on a moderate commercial GPU.


LeakSemantic: Identifying Abnormal Sensitive Network Transmissions in
  Mobile Applications

  Mobile applications (apps) often transmit sensitive data through network with
various intentions. Some transmissions are needed to fulfill the app's
functionalities. However, transmissions with malicious receivers may lead to
privacy leakage and tend to behave stealthily to evade detection. The problem
is twofold: how does one unveil sensitive transmissions in mobile apps, and
given a sensitive transmission, how does one determine if it is legitimate?
  In this paper, we propose LeakSemantic, a framework that can automatically
locate abnormal sensitive network transmissions from mobile apps. LeakSemantic
consists of a hybrid program analysis component and a machine learning
component. Our program analysis component combines static analysis and dynamic
analysis to precisely identify sensitive transmissions. Compared to existing
taint analysis approaches, LeakSemantic achieves better accuracy with fewer
false positives and is able to collect runtime data such as network traffic for
each transmission. Based on features derived from the runtime data, machine
learning classifiers are built to further differentiate between the legal and
illegal disclosures. Experiments show that LeakSemantic achieves 91% accuracy
on 2279 sensitive connections from 1404 apps.


Topological crystalline antiferromagnetic state in tetragonal FeS

  Integration between magnetism and topology is an exotic phenomenon in
condensed-matter physics. Here, we propose an exotic phase named topological
crystalline antiferromagnetic state, in which antiferromagnetism intrinsically
integrates with nontrivial topology, and we suggest such a state can be
realized in tetragonal FeS. A combination of first-principles calculations and
symmetry analyses shows that the topological crystalline antiferromagnetic
state arises from band reconstruction induced by pair checker-board
antiferromagnetic order together with band-gap opening induced by intrinsic
spin-orbit coupling in tetragonal FeS. The topological crystalline
antiferromagnetic state is protected by the product of fractional translation
symmetry, mirror symmetry, and time-reversal symmetry, and present some unique
features. In contrast to strong topological insulators, the topological
robustness is surface-dependent. These findings indicate that non-trivial
topological states could emerge in pure antiferromagnetic materials, which
sheds new light on potential applications of topological properties in
fast-developing antiferromagnetic spintronics.


Training Quantized Nets: A Deeper Understanding

  Currently, deep neural networks are deployed on low-power portable devices by
first training a full-precision model using powerful hardware, and then
deriving a corresponding low-precision model for efficient inference on such
systems. However, training models directly with coarsely quantized weights is a
key step towards learning on embedded platforms that have limited computing
resources, memory capacity, and power consumption. Numerous recent publications
have studied methods for training quantized networks, but these studies have
mostly been empirical. In this work, we investigate training methods for
quantized neural networks from a theoretical viewpoint. We first explore
accuracy guarantees for training methods under convexity assumptions. We then
look at the behavior of these algorithms for non-convex problems, and show that
training algorithms that exploit high-precision representations have an
important greedy search phase that purely quantized training methods lack,
which explains the difficulty of training using low-precision arithmetic.


Energy-Efficient Power Allocation in Millimeter Wave Massive MIMO with
  Non-Orthogonal Multiple Access

  In this letter, we investigate the energy efficiency (EE) problem in a
millimeter wave (mmWave) massive MIMO (mMIMO) system with non-orthogonal
multiple access (NOMA). Multiple two-user clusters are formulated according to
their channel correlation and gain difference. Following this, we propose a
hybrid analog/digital precoding scheme for the low radio frequency (RF) chains
structure at the base station (BS). On this basis, we formulate a power
allocation problem aiming to maximize the EE under users' quality of service
(QoS) requirements and per-cluster power constraint. An iterative algorithm is
proposed to obtain the optimal power allocation. Simulation results show that
the proposed NOMA achieves superior EE performance than that of conventional
OMA.


Keeping Context In Mind: Automating Mobile App Access Control with User
  Interface Inspection

  Recent studies observe that app foreground is the most striking component
that influences the access control decisions in mobile platform, as users tend
to deny permission requests lacking visible evidence. However, none of the
existing permission models provides a systematic approach that can
automatically answer the question: Is the resource access indicated by app
foreground? In this work, we present the design, implementation, and evaluation
of COSMOS, a context-aware mediation system that bridges the semantic gap
between foreground interaction and background access, in order to protect
system integrity and user privacy. Specifically, COSMOS learns from a large set
of apps with similar functionalities and user interfaces to construct generic
models that detect the outliers at runtime. It can be further customized to
satisfy specific user privacy preference by continuously evolving with user
decisions. Experiments show that COSMOS achieves both high precision and high
recall in detecting malicious requests. We also demonstrate the effectiveness
of COSMOS in capturing specific user preferences using the decisions collected
from 24 users and illustrate that COSMOS can be easily deployed on smartphones
as a real-time guard with a very low performance overhead.


Modeling Past and Future for Neural Machine Translation

  Existing neural machine translation systems do not explicitly model what has
been translated and what has not during the decoding phase. To address this
problem, we propose a novel mechanism that separates the source information
into two parts: translated Past contents and untranslated Future contents,
which are modeled by two additional recurrent layers. The Past and Future
contents are fed to both the attention model and the decoder states, which
offers NMT systems the knowledge of translated and untranslated contents.
Experimental results show that the proposed approach significantly improves
translation performance in Chinese-English, German-English and English-German
translation tasks. Specifically, the proposed model outperforms the
conventional coverage model in both of the translation quality and the
alignment error rate.


Visualizing the Loss Landscape of Neural Nets

  Neural network training relies on our ability to find "good" minimizers of
highly non-convex loss functions. It is well-known that certain network
architecture designs (e.g., skip connections) produce loss functions that train
easier, and well-chosen training parameters (batch size, learning rate,
optimizer) produce minimizers that generalize better. However, the reasons for
these differences, and their effects on the underlying loss landscape, are not
well understood. In this paper, we explore the structure of neural loss
functions, and the effect of loss landscapes on generalization, using a range
of visualization methods. First, we introduce a simple "filter normalization"
method that helps us visualize loss function curvature and make meaningful
side-by-side comparisons between loss functions. Then, using a variety of
visualizations, we explore how network architecture affects the loss landscape,
and how training parameters affect the shape of minimizers.


Detecting Statistically Significant Communities

  Community detection is a key data analysis problem across different fields.
During the past decades, numerous algorithms have been proposed to address this
issue. However, most work on community detection does not address the issue of
statistical significance. Although some research efforts have been made towards
mining statistically significant communities, deriving an analytical solution
of p-value for one community under the configuration model is still a
challenging mission that remains unsolved. To partially fulfill this void, we
present a tight upper bound on the p-value of a single community under the
configuration model, which can be used for quantifying the statistical
significance of each community analytically. Meanwhile, we present a local
search method to detect statistically significant communities in an iterative
manner. Experimental results demonstrate that our method is comparable with the
competing methods on detecting statistically significant communities.


MIXGAN: Learning Concepts from Different Domains for Mixture Generation

  In this work, we present an interesting attempt on mixture generation:
absorbing different image concepts (e.g., content and style) from different
domains and thus generating a new domain with learned concepts. In particular,
we propose a mixture generative adversarial network (MIXGAN). MIXGAN learns
concepts of content and style from two domains respectively, and thus can join
them for mixture generation in a new domain, i.e., generating images with
content from one domain and style from another. MIXGAN overcomes the limitation
of current GAN-based models which either generate new images in the same domain
as they observed in training stage, or require off-the-shelf content templates
for transferring or translation. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the
effectiveness of MIXGAN as compared to related state-of-the-art GAN-based
models.


High-Resolution Talking Face Generation via Mutual Information
  Approximation

  Given an arbitrary speech clip and a facial image, talking face generation
aims to synthesize a talking face video with precise lip synchronization as
well as a smooth transition of facial motion over the entire video speech. Most
existing methods mainly focus on either disentangling the information in a
single image or learning temporal information between frames. However, speech
audio and video often have cross-modality coherence that has not been well
addressed during synthesis. Therefore, this paper proposes a novel
high-resolution talking face generation model for arbitrary person by
discovering the cross-modality coherence via Mutual Information Approximation
(MIA). By assuming the modality difference between audio and video is larger
that of real video and generated video, we estimate mutual information between
real audio and video, and then use a discriminator to enforce generated video
distribution approach real video distribution. Furthermore, we introduce a
dynamic attention technique on the mouth to enhance the robustness during the
training stage. Experimental results on benchmark dataset LRW transcend the
state-of-the-art methods on prevalent metrics with robustness on gender, pose
variations and high-resolution synthesizing.


