Performance-driven 3D printing of continuous curved fibre reinforced
  polymer composites a preliminary numerical study

  This paper presents a new concept to place continuous curved fibres for CFRP
composites, which can be fulfilled by potential additive or hybrid
manufacturing technology. Based on the loading condition, principal stress
trajectories are generated through finite element analysis (FEA) and used as
the guidance of the placement paths for carbon fibres. Three numerical cases,
an open-hole single ply lamina under uniaxial tension and an open-hole
cross-ply laminate under biaxial tension and normal pressure, are studied and
compared with traditional reinforced composites with unidirectional fibres. The
modelling results show that the stress concentration in both fibre and matrix
are reduced significantly by the curved fibre placement and the stiffness of
CFRP composites have been improved. This concept of performance-driven
optimization method could lead to a useful tool for the design of future 3D
printing process for fibre reinforced composites.


WeDo: Exploring Participatory, End-To-End Collective Action

  Many celebrate the Internet's ability to connect individuals and facilitate
collective action toward a common goal. While numerous systems have been
designed to support particular aspects of collective action, few systems
support participatory, end-to-end collective action in which a crowd or
community identifies opportunities, formulates goals, brainstorms ideas,
develops plans, mobilizes, and takes action. To explore the possibilities and
barriers in supporting such interactions, we have developed WeDo, a system
aimed at promoting simple forms of participatory, end-to-end collective action.
Pilot deployments of WeDo illustrate that sociotechnical systems can support
automated transitions through different phases of end-to-end collective action,
but that challenges, such as the elicitation of leadership and the
accommodation of existing group norms, remain.


Attendee-Sourcing: Exploring The Design Space of Community-Informed
  Conference Scheduling

  Constructing a good conference schedule for a large multi-track conference
needs to take into account the preferences and constraints of organizers,
authors, and attendees. Creating a schedule which has fewer conflicts for
authors and attendees, and thematically coherent sessions is a challenging
task.
  Cobi introduced an alternative approach to conference scheduling by engaging
the community to play an active role in the planning process. The current Cobi
pipeline consists of committee-sourcing and author-sourcing to plan a
conference schedule. We further explore the design space of community-sourcing
by introducing attendee-sourcing -- a process that collects input from
conference attendees and encodes them as preferences and constraints for
creating sessions and schedule. For CHI 2014, a large multi-track conference in
human-computer interaction with more than 3,000 attendees and 1,000 authors, we
collected attendees' preferences by making available all the accepted papers at
the conference on a paper recommendation tool we built called Confer, for a
period of 45 days before announcing the conference program (sessions and
schedule). We compare the preferences marked on Confer with the preferences
collected from Cobi's author-sourcing approach. We show that attendee-sourcing
can provide insights beyond what can be discovered by author-sourcing. For CHI
2014, the results show value in the method and attendees' participation. It
produces data that provides more alternatives in scheduling and complements
data collected from other methods for creating coherent sessions and reducing
conflicts.


Neutrino Physics with JUNO

  The Jiangmen Underground Neutrino Observatory (JUNO), a 20 kton multi-purpose
underground liquid scintillator detector, was proposed with the determination
of the neutrino mass hierarchy as a primary physics goal. It is also capable of
observing neutrinos from terrestrial and extra-terrestrial sources, including
supernova burst neutrinos, diffuse supernova neutrino background, geoneutrinos,
atmospheric neutrinos, solar neutrinos, as well as exotic searches such as
nucleon decays, dark matter, sterile neutrinos, etc. We present the physics
motivations and the anticipated performance of the JUNO detector for various
proposed measurements. By detecting reactor antineutrinos from two power plants
at 53-km distance, JUNO will determine the neutrino mass hierarchy at a 3-4
sigma significance with six years of running. The measurement of antineutrino
spectrum will also lead to the precise determination of three out of the six
oscillation parameters to an accuracy of better than 1\%. Neutrino burst from a
typical core-collapse supernova at 10 kpc would lead to ~5000
inverse-beta-decay events and ~2000 all-flavor neutrino-proton elastic
scattering events in JUNO. Detection of DSNB would provide valuable information
on the cosmic star-formation rate and the average core-collapsed neutrino
energy spectrum. Geo-neutrinos can be detected in JUNO with a rate of ~400
events per year, significantly improving the statistics of existing geoneutrino
samples. The JUNO detector is sensitive to several exotic searches, e.g. proton
decay via the $p\to K^++\bar\nu$ decay channel. The JUNO detector will provide
a unique facility to address many outstanding crucial questions in particle and
astrophysics. It holds the great potential for further advancing our quest to
understanding the fundamental properties of neutrinos, one of the building
blocks of our Universe.


