Community Detection in Political Twitter Networks using Nonnegative
  Matrix Factorization Methods

  Community detection is a fundamental task in social network analysis. In this
paper, first we develop an endorsement filtered user connectivity network by
utilizing Heider's structural balance theory and certain Twitter triad
patterns. Next, we develop three Nonnegative Matrix Factorization frameworks to
investigate the contributions of different types of user connectivity and
content information in community detection. We show that user content and
endorsement filtered connectivity information are complementary to each other
in clustering politically motivated users into pure political communities. Word
usage is the strongest indicator of users' political orientation among all
content categories. Incorporating user-word matrix and word similarity
regularizer provides the missing link in connectivity only methods which suffer
from detection of artificially large number of clusters for Twitter networks.


Sentiment-driven Community Profiling and Detection on Social Media

  Web 2.0 helps to expand the range and depth of conversation on many issues
and facilitates the formation of online communities. Online communities draw
various individuals together based on their common opinions on a core set of
issues. Most existing community detection methods merely focus on discovering
communities without providing any insight regarding the collective opinions of
community members and the motives behind the formation of communities. Several
efforts have been made to tackle this problem by presenting a set of keywords
as a community profile. However, they neglect the positions of community
members towards keywords, which play an important role for understanding
communities in the highly polarized atmosphere of social media. To this end, we
present a sentiment-driven community profiling and detection framework which
aims to provide community profiles presenting positive and negative collective
opinions of community members separately. With this regard, our framework
initially extracts key expressions in users' messages as representative of
issues and then identifies users' positive/negative attitudes towards these key
expressions. Next, it uncovers a low-dimensional latent space in order to
cluster users according to their opinions and social interactions (i.e.,
retweets). We demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework through
quantitative and qualitative evaluations.


Detecting Antagonistic and Allied Communities on Social Media

  Community detection on social media has attracted considerable attention for
many years. However, existing methods do not reveal the relations between
communities. Communities can form alliances or engage in antagonisms due to
various factors, e.g., shared or conflicting goals and values. Uncovering such
relations can provide better insights to understand communities and the
structure of social media. According to social science findings, the attitudes
that members from different communities express towards each other are largely
shaped by their community membership. Hence, we hypothesize that
inter-community attitudes expressed among users in social media have the
potential to reflect their inter-community relations. Therefore, we first
validate this hypothesis in the context of social media. Then, inspired by the
hypothesis, we develop a framework to detect communities and their relations by
jointly modeling users' attitudes and social interactions. We present
experimental results using three real-world social media datasets to
demonstrate the efficacy of our framework.


Orthogonal Rank-One Matrix Pursuit for Low Rank Matrix Completion

  In this paper, we propose an efficient and scalable low rank matrix
completion algorithm. The key idea is to extend orthogonal matching pursuit
method from the vector case to the matrix case. We further propose an economic
version of our algorithm by introducing a novel weight updating rule to reduce
the time and storage complexity. Both versions are computationally inexpensive
for each matrix pursuit iteration, and find satisfactory results in a few
iterations. Another advantage of our proposed algorithm is that it has only one
tunable parameter, which is the rank. It is easy to understand and to use by
the user. This becomes especially important in large-scale learning problems.
In addition, we rigorously show that both versions achieve a linear convergence
rate, which is significantly better than the previous known results. We also
empirically compare the proposed algorithms with several state-of-the-art
matrix completion algorithms on many real-world datasets, including the
large-scale recommendation dataset Netflix as well as the MovieLens datasets.
Numerical results show that our proposed algorithm is more efficient than
competing algorithms while achieving similar or better prediction performance.


