Numerical solution to the Bloch equations, paramagnetic solutions under
  wideband continuous radio frequency irradiation in a pulsed magnetic field

  A novel NMR experimental scheme, called wide band continuous wave NMR, is
presented in this article.


Maximal hypersurfaces over exterior domains

  In this paper, we study the exterior problem for the maximal surface
equation. We obtain the precise asymptotic behavior of the exterior solution at
infinity. And we prove that the exterior Dirichlet problem is uniquely solvable
given admissible boundary data and prescribed asymptotic behavior at infinity.


Spin scattering of a particle for periodic boundary conditions

  We have studied anomalous diffusion of a particle in a random medium in which
the passage of the particle may modify the state of the visited sites. The
simplicity of the dynamics allows analytic solution. Interesting propagation
and organization behaviors will be reported.


Double Electromagnetically Induced Transparency in a Tripod-type Atom
  System

  The electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) phenomenon in a four level
atomic system with tripod configuration is studied. The results show that this
configuration is equivalent to the combination of two single three-level
$\Lambda$ configurations, which, under certain conditions, results in the
so-called double-EIT (DEIT) phenomenon. The properties of the double
transparency windows for DEIT are discussed in detail and the possible
experimental scheme is proposed.


A note on the Ricci flow on noncompact manifolds

  Let $(M^3,g_0)$ be a complete noncompact Riemannian 3-manifold with
nonnegative Ricci curvature and with injectivity radius bounded away from zero.
Suppose that the scalar curvature $R(x)\to 0$ as $x\to \infty$. Then the Ricci
flow with initial data $(M^3,g_0)$ has a long time solution. This extends a
recent result of Ma and Zhu. We also have a higher dimensional version, and we
reprove a K$\ddot{a}$hler analogy due to Chau, Tam and Yu.


Slow light of an amplitude modulated Gaussian pulse in
  electromagnetically induced transparency medium

  The slow light effects of an amplitude modulated Gaussian (AMG) pulse in a
cesium atomic vapor are presented. In a single-$\Lambda$ type
electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) medium, more severe distortion
is observed for an AMG pulse than a Gaussian one. Using Fourier spectrum
analysis, we find that the distortion, as well as the loss, is dominantly
caused by linear absorption than dispersion. Accordingly, a compensation method
is proposed to reshape the slow light pulse based on the transmission spectrum.
In addition, we find a novel way to obtain simultaneous slow and fast light.


Truly random number generation via entropy amplification

  We present a simple setup to implement truly random number generator based on
the measurement of the laser phase noise. From the entropy point of view, we
estimate the number of truly random bits that can be extracted from the sampled
Byte. With a simple method of adopting the $m$-least-significant-bit, we
amplify the entropy of the original bit sequence and realize a truly random bit
generation rate of $300$ Mbps.


Observation of Anticorrelation with Classical Light in a Linear Optical
  System

  Two-photon anticorrelation is observed when laser and pseudothermal light
beams are incident to the two input ports of a Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer,
respectively. The spatial second-order interference pattern of laser and
pseudothermal light beams is reported. Temporal Hong-Ou-Mandel dip is also
observed when these two detectors are at the symmetrical positions. These
results are helpful to understand the physics behind the second-order
interference of light.


Constrained and Preconditioned Stochastic Gradient Method

  We consider stochastic approximations which arise from such applications as
data communications and image processing. We demonstrate why constraints are
needed in a stochastic approximation and how a constrained approximation can be
incorporated into a preconditioning technique to derive the pre-conditioned
stochastic gradient method (PSGM). We perform convergence analysis to show that
the PSGM converges to the theoretical best approximation under some simple
assumptions on the preconditioner and on the independence of samples drawn from
a stochastic process. Simulation results are presented to demonstrate the
effectiveness of the constrained and precondi-tioned stochastic gradient
method.


Software for cut-generating functions in the Gomory--Johnson model and
  beyond

  We present software for investigations with cut generating functions in the
Gomory-Johnson model and extensions, implemented in the computer algebra system
SageMath.


Equivariant Perturbation in Gomory and Johnson's Infinite Group Problem.
  V. Software for the continuous and discontinuous 1-row case

  We present software for investigations with cut-generating functions in the
Gomory--Johnson model and extensions, implemented in the computer algebra
system SageMath.


Mean Field Theory for Lossy Nonlinear Composites

  The mean-field theory for lossy nonlinear composites, described by complex
and field-dependent dielectric functions, is presented. By using the spectral
representation of linear composites with identical microstructure, we develop
self-consistent equations for the effective response. We examine two types of
microstructure, namely, the Maxwell-Garnett approximation and the effective
medium approximation to illustrate the theory.


Dielectric behaviors of corrugated membranes

  We have employed our recently developed Green's function formalism to study
the dielectric behavior of a model membrane, formed by two periodic interfaces
separating two media of different dielectric constants. The Maxwell's equations
are converted into a surface integral equation; thus it greatly simplifies the
solutions and yields accurate results for membranes of arbitrary shape. The
integral equation is solved and dielectric dispersion spectrum is obtained for
a model corrugated membrane. We report a giant dielectric dispersion as the
amplitude of corrugation becomes large.


Hausdorff dimension, Mean quadratic variation of infinite self-similar
  measures

  Under weaker condition than that of Riedi & Mandelbrot, the Hausdorff (and
Hausdorff-Besicovitch) dimension of infinite self-similar set K which is the
invariant compact set of infinite contractive similarities {S_j(x)} satisfying
open set condition is obtained. It is proved (under some additional hypotheses)
that the mean quadratic variation of infinite self-similar measure is of
asymptotic property.


Fiber based source of photon pairs at telecom band with high temporal
  coherence and brightness for quantum information processing

  We experimentally demonstrate a bright pulsed source of correlated photon
pairs at 1550 nm telecom band by pumping 300 m dispersion shifted fiber with a
4 ps pulse train. We investigate the coherence property of the source by
measuring the second order intensity correlation function $g^{(2)}$ of
individual signal (idler) photons. A preliminary Hong-Ou-Mandel type two-photon
interference experiment with two such sources confirms the high temporal and
spatial coherence of the source. The source is suitable for multi-photon
quantum interference of independent sources, required in quantum information
processing.


Biharmonic hypersurfaces with constant scalar curvature in space forms

  Let $M^n$ be a biharmonic hypersurface with constant scalar curvature in a
space form $\mathbb M^{n+1}(c)$. We show that $M^n$ has constant mean curvature
if $c>0$ and $M^n$ is minimal if $c\leq0$, provided that the number of distinct
principal curvatures is no more than 6. This partially confirms Chen's
conjecture and Generalized Chen's conjecture. As a consequence, we prove that
there exist no proper biharmonic hypersurfaces with constant scalar curvature
in Euclidean space $\mathbb E^{n+1}$ or hyperbolic space $\mathbb H^{n+1}$ for
$n<7$.


Sensor Deployment for Air Pollution Monitoring Using Public
  Transportation System

  Air pollution monitoring is a very popular research topic and many monitoring
systems have been developed. In this paper, we formulate the Bus Sensor
Deployment Problem (BSDP) to select the bus routes on which sensors are
deployed, and we use Chemical Reaction Optimization (CRO) to solve BSDP. CRO is
a recently proposed metaheuristic designed to solve a wide range of
optimization problems. Using the real world data, namely Hong Kong Island bus
route data, we perform a series of simulations and the results show that CRO is
capable of solving this optimization problem efficiently.


Sentence Simplification with Memory-Augmented Neural Networks

  Sentence simplification aims to simplify the content and structure of complex
sentences, and thus make them easier to interpret for human readers, and easier
to process for downstream NLP applications. Recent advances in neural machine
translation have paved the way for novel approaches to the task. In this paper,
we adapt an architecture with augmented memory capacities called Neural
Semantic Encoders (Munkhdalai and Yu, 2017) for sentence simplification. Our
experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on different
simplification datasets, both in terms of automatic evaluation measures and
human judgments.


Convergence of the Ginzburg-Landau approximation for the Ericksen-Leslie
  system

  We establish the local well-posedness of the general Ericksen-Leslie system
in liquid crystals with the initial velocity and director field in $H^1 \times
H_b^2$. In particular, we prove that the solutions of the Ginzburg-Landau
approximation system converge smoothly to the solution of the Ericksen-Leslie
system for any $t \in (0,T^\ast)$ with a maximal existence time $T^\ast$ of the
Ericksen- Leslie system.


Enhancement of Optical Nonlinearity Through Anisotropic Microstructures

  We investigate the polarization dependence of optical nonlinearity
enhancement for a uniaxial anisotropic composite of metal nanocrystals in a
dielectric host. Three cases are distinguished depending on whether the
polarization is parallel, perpendicular or unpolarized with respect to the axis
of anisotropy. For the parallel polarization, the results show that the 3D
results are qualitatively similar to the 2D case reported recently. For the
perpendicular polarization, the results are markedly different from the
parallel counterpart: In contrast to the absorption, the enhancement factor
actually increases with the anisotropy. Thus the separation of the absorption
and enhancement peaks becomes even more pronounced than the parallel
polarization case. These results indicate a strong polarization dependence of
the nonlinear optical response.


Dielectric Behavior of Nonspherical Cell Suspensions

  Recent experiments revealed that the dielectric dispersion spectrum of
fission yeast cells in a suspension was mainly composed of two sub-dispersions.
The low-frequency sub-dispersion depended on the cell length, whereas the
high-frequency one was independent of it. The cell shape effect was
qualitatively simulated by an ellipsoidal cell model. However, the comparison
between theory and experiment was far from being satisfactory. In an attempt to
close up the gap between theory and experiment, we considered the more
realistic cells of spherocylinders, i.e., circular cylinders with two
hemispherical caps at both ends. We have formulated a Green function formalism
for calculating the spectral representation of cells of finite length. The
Green function can be reduced because of the azimuthal symmetry of the cell.
This simplification enables us to calculate the dispersion spectrum and hence
access the effect of cell structure on the dielectric behavior of cell
suspensions.


Spectral Representation Theory for Dielectric Behavior of Nonspherical
  Cell Suspensions

  Recent experiments revealed that the dielectric dispersion spectrum of
fission yeast cells in a suspension was mainly composed of two sub-dispersions.
The low-frequency sub-dispersion depended on the cell length, while the
high-frequency one was independent of it. The cell shape effect was simulated
by an ellipsoidal cell model but the comparison between theory and experiment
was far from being satisfactory. Prompted by the discrepancy, we proposed the
use of spectral representation to analyze more realistic cell models. We
adopted a shell-spheroidal model to analyze the effects of the cell membrane.
It is found that the dielectric property of the cell membrane has only a minor
effect on the dispersion magnitude ratio and the characteristic frequency
ratio. We further included the effect of rotation of dipole induced by an
external electric field, and solved the dipole-rotation spheroidal model in the
spectral representation. Good agreement between theory and experiment has been
obtained.


DNN Filter Bank Cepstral Coefficients for Spoofing Detection

  With the development of speech synthesis techniques, automatic speaker
verification systems face the serious challenge of spoofing attack. In order to
improve the reliability of speaker verification systems, we develop a new
filter bank based cepstral feature, deep neural network filter bank cepstral
coefficients (DNN-FBCC), to distinguish between natural and spoofed speech. The
deep neural network filter bank is automatically generated by training a filter
bank neural network (FBNN) using natural and synthetic speech. By adding
restrictions on the training rules, the learned weight matrix of FBNN is
band-limited and sorted by frequency, similar to the normal filter bank. Unlike
the manually designed filter bank, the learned filter bank has different filter
shapes in different channels, which can capture the differences between natural
and synthetic speech more effectively. The experimental results on the ASVspoof
{2015} database show that the Gaussian mixture model maximum-likelihood
(GMM-ML) classifier trained by the new feature performs better than the
state-of-the-art linear frequency cepstral coefficients (LFCC) based
classifier, especially on detecting unknown attacks.


A modified Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer for two-parameter sensing

  A modification of the standard Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer is proposed that
allows one to recover two independent parameters (delays) via the coincidence
counts measured at the output of the setup. In the ideal case where such delays
are sufficiently stable with respect to the mean wavelength of the pump source,
properly symmetrized input bi-photon states allow one to pinpoint their values
through the identification of a zero in the coincidence counts, a feature that
cannot be simulated by semiclassical inputs. Besides, in the presence of
fluctuating parameters the zero in the coincidences is washed away: still the
bi-photon state permits to recover the values of parameters with a visibility
which is higher than the one allowed by semiclassical sources. The detrimental
role of loss and dispersion is also analyzed and an application in the context
of quantum positioning is presented.


Temporal Dark Solitons in Nonuniform Bose-Einstein Condensates

  We discuss temporal dark solitons in confined nonuniform Bose condensates. As
a kind of localized high excitation, these solitons can be viewed as
macroscopic quasiparticles, having relative motion to the background
condensate. We get an analytic expression for one dark soliton under a slowly
varying approximation and discuss its special propagation properties in a
nonuniform condensate, then we numerically prove that this approximation is
reasonable and this kind of soliton exhibits their propagation properties in
the nonuniform condensate. Finally, we simulate the generation of
dark-soliton-like pulses in the condensate, and indicate that the excitation
experiment, done by Ketterle and co-workers [Phys. Rev. Lett. 79, 553 (1997)],
can also be interpreted in terms of temporal dark soliton.


Slow Light of an Amplitude Modulated Gaussian Pulse in Cesium Vapor

  Slow light of an amplitude modulated Gaussian (AMG) pulse in cesium vapor is
demonstrated and studied, as an appropriate amplitude modulation to a single
pulse can expand its spectrum and thus increase the utilization efficiency of
the bandwidth of a slow light system. In a single-$\Lambda$ type
electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) system, the slowed AMG pulse
experiences severe distortion, mainly owing to the frequency dependent
transmission of medium. Additionally, due to its spectral distribution, the
frequency dependent dispersion of the medium causes simultaneous slow and fast
light of different spectral components and thus a certain dispersive distortion
of the AMG pulse. Further, a post-processing method is proposed to recover the
slowed (distorted) pulse, which indicates that by introducing a linear optical
system with a desired gain spectrum we can recover the pulse in an
"all-optical" way. Finally, we discuss the limitations during this compensation
procedure in detail. Although it is demonstrated in the cesium vapor using EIT,
this method should be applicable to a wide range of slow light systems.


Truly Random Number Generation Based on Measurement of Phase Noise of
  Laser

  We present a simple approach to realize truly random number generation based
on measurement of the phase noise of a single mode vertical cavity surface
emitting laser (VCSEL). The true randomness of the quantum phase noise
originates from the spontaneous emission of photons and the random bit
generation rate is ultimately limited only by the laser linewidth. With the
final bit generation rate of 20 Mbit/s, the physically guaranteed truly random
bit sequence passes the three standard random tests. Moreover, for the first
time, a {\it continuously} generated random bit sequence up to 14 Gbit is
verified by two additional criteria for its true randomness.


Macroscopic Hong-Ou-Mandel interference

  We report on a Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) interference experiment for quantum
states with photon numbers per mode as large as 10^6 generated via high-gain
parametric down conversion (PDC). The standard technique of coincidence
counting leads in this case to a dip with a very low visibility. By measuring,
instead of coincidence rate, the variance of the photon-number difference, we
observe a peak with 99.99% visibility. From the shape of the peak, one can
infer information about the temporal mode structure of the PDC radiation,
including the degree of frequency/time entanglement.


Near-infrared Hong-Ou-Mandel interference on a silicon quantum photonic
  circuit

  Near-infrared Hong-Ou-Mandel quantum interference is observed in silicon
nanophotonic directional couplers with raw visibilities on-chip at 90.5%.
Spectrally-bright 1557-nm two-photon states are generated in a
periodically-poled KTiOPO4 waveguide chip, serving as the entangled photon
source and pumped with a self-injection locked laser, for the photon
statistical measurements. Efficient four-port coupling in the communications
C-band and in the high-index-contrast silicon photonics platform is
demonstrated, with matching theoretical predictions of the quantum interference
visibility. Constituents for the residual quantum visibility imperfection are
examined, supported with theoretical analysis of the sequentially-triggered
multipair biphoton contribution and techniques for visibility compensation,
towards scalable high-bitrate quantum information processing and
communications.


Smartphone microendoscopy for high resolution fluorescence imaging

  High resolution optical endoscopes are increasingly used in diagnosis of
various medical conditions of internal organs, such as the gastrointestinal
tracts, but they are too expensive for use in resource-poor settings. On the
other hand, smartphones with high resolution cameras and Internet access have
become more affordable, enabling them to diffuse into most rural areas and
developing countries in the past decade. In this letter we describe a
smartphone microendoscope that can take fluorescence images with a spatial
resolution of 3.1 {\mu}m. Images collected from ex vivo, in vitro and in vivo
samples using the device are also presented. The compact and cost-effective
smartphone microendoscope may be envisaged as a powerful tool for detecting
pre-cancerous lesions of internal organs in low and middle income countries.


Ultrafast Charge Transfer in Atomically Thin MoS2/WS2 Heterostructures

  Van der Waals heterostructures have recently emerged as a new class of
materials, where quantum coupling between stacked atomically thin
two-dimensional (2D) layers, including graphene, hexagonal-boron nitride, and
transition metal dichalcogenides (MX2), give rise to fascinating new phenomena.
MX2 heterostructures are particularly exciting for novel optoelectronic and
photovoltaic applications, because 2D MX2 monolayers can have an optical
bandgap in the near-infrared to visible spectral range and exhibit extremely
strong light-matter interactions. Theory predicts that many stacked MX2
heterostructures form type-II semiconductor heterojunctions that facilitate
efficient electron-hole separation for light detection and harvesting. Here we
report the first experimental observation of ultrafast charge transfer in
photo-excited MoS2/WS2 heterostructures using both photoluminescence mapping
and femtosecond (fs) pump-probe spectroscopy. We show that hole transfer from
the MoS2 layer to the WS2 layer takes place within 50 fs after optical
excitation, a remarkable rate for van der Waals coupled 2D layers. Such
ultrafast charge transfer in van der Waals heterostructures can enable novel 2D
devices for optoelectronics and light harvesting.


Multi-modal Face Pose Estimation with Multi-task Manifold Deep Learning

  Human face pose estimation aims at estimating the gazing direction or head
postures with 2D images. It gives some very important information such as
communicative gestures, saliency detection and so on, which attracts plenty of
attention recently. However, it is challenging because of complex background,
various orientations and face appearance visibility. Therefore, a descriptive
representation of face images and mapping it to poses are critical. In this
paper, we make use of multi-modal data and propose a novel face pose estimation
method that uses a novel deep learning framework named Multi-task Manifold Deep
Learning $M^2DL$. It is based on feature extraction with improved deep neural
networks and multi-modal mapping relationship with multi-task learning. In the
proposed deep learning based framework, Manifold Regularized Convolutional
Layers (MRCL) improve traditional convolutional layers by learning the
relationship among outputs of neurons. Besides, in the proposed mapping
relationship learning method, different modals of face representations are
naturally combined to learn the mapping function from face images to poses. In
this way, the computed mapping model with multiple tasks is improved.
Experimental results on three challenging benchmark datasets DPOSE, HPID and
BKHPD demonstrate the outstanding performance of $M^2DL$.


Analysis of the Game-Theoretic Modeling of Backscatter Wireless Sensor
  Networks under Smart Interference

  In this paper, we study an interference avoidance scenario in the presence of
a smart interferer which can rapidly observe the transmit power of a
backscatter wireless sensor network (WSN) and effectively interrupt backscatter
signals. We consider a power control with a sub-channel allocation to avoid
interference attacks and a time-switching ratio for backscattering and RF
energy harvesting in backscatter WSNs. We formulate the problem based on a
Stackelberg game theory and compute the optimal transmit power, time-switching
ratio, and sub-channel allocation parameter to maximize a utility function
against the smart interference. We propose two algorithms for the utility
maximization using Lagrangian dual decomposition for the backscatter WSN and
the smart interference to prove the existence of the Stackelberg equilibrium.
Numerical results show that the proposed algorithms effectively maximize the
utility, compared to that of the algorithm based on the Nash game, so as to
overcome smart interference in backscatter communications.


Sentence Embedding Alignment for Lifelong Relation Extraction

  Conventional approaches to relation extraction usually require a fixed set of
pre-defined relations. Such requirement is hard to meet in many real
applications, especially when new data and relations are emerging incessantly
and it is computationally expensive to store all data and re-train the whole
model every time new data and relations come in. We formulate such a
challenging problem as lifelong relation extraction and investigate
memory-efficient incremental learning methods without catastrophically
forgetting knowledge learned from previous tasks. We first investigate a
modified version of the stochastic gradient methods with a replay memory, which
surprisingly outperforms recent state-of-the-art lifelong learning methods. We
further propose to improve this approach to alleviate the forgetting problem by
anchoring the sentence embedding space. Specifically, we utilize an explicit
alignment model to mitigate the sentence embedding distortion of the learned
model when training on new data and new relations. Experiment results on
multiple benchmarks show that our proposed method significantly outperforms the
state-of-the-art lifelong learning approaches.


LFVN observations of active galactic nuclei

  In November 1999 we carried out VLBI observations of several quasars and BL
Lacertae objects at 1.66 GHz. Six antennas participated in the experiment (Bear
Lakes, Svetloe, Pushchino, Noto, HartRAO, and Seshan). The results for six
sources (0420+022, 0420-014, 1308+326, 1345+125, 1803+784, and DA193) are
presented and discussed.


Local-field distribution in resonant composites: Green's-function
  formalism

  The effective response depends sensitively on composite microstructure due to
large fluctuations in the local electric field. For metallic clusters embedded
in a dielectric host, the local field distributions are extremely inhomogeneous
in space around the metallic clusters due to quasi-static resonance, leading to
a large enhancement in the effective linear and nonlinear responses. In this
work, we propose a general method for computing the electric field of metallic
clusters near resonance via a perturbation formalism. We illustrate the method
by simple examples.


Is $f_1(1420)$ the partner of $f_1(1285)$ in the $^3P_1$ $q\bar{q}$
  nonet?

  Based on a $2\times 2$ mass matrix, the mixing angle of the axial vector
states $f_1(1420)$ and $f_1(1285)$ is determined to be $51.5^{\circ}$, and the
theoretical results about the decay and production of the two states are
presented. The theoretical results are in good agreement with the present
experimental results, which suggests that $f_1(1420)$ can be assigned as the
partner of $f_1(1285)$ in the $^3P_1$ $q\bar{q}$ nonet. We also suggest that
the existence of $f_1(1510)$ needs further experimental confirmation.


Modification of Kawai model about the mixing of the pseudoscalar mesons

  The Kawai model describing the glueball-quarkonia mixing is modified. The
mixing of $\eta$, $\eta^\prime$ and $\eta(1410)$ is re-investigated based on
the modified Kawai model. The glueball-quarkonia content of the three states is
determined from a fit to the data of the electromagnetic decays involving
$\eta$, $\eta^\prime$. Some predictions about the electromagnetic decays
involving $\eta(1410)$ are presented.


Properties of the scalar mesons $f_0(1370)$, $f_0(1500)$ and $f_0(1710)$

  In the three-state mixing framework, considering the possible glueball
components of $\eta$ and $\eta^\prime$, we investigate the hadronic decays of
$f_0(1370)$, $f_0(1500)$ and $f_0(1710)$ into two pseudoscalar mesons. The
quarkonia-glueball content of the three states is determined from the fit to
the new data presented by the WA102 Collaboration. We find that these data are
insensitive to the possible glueball components of $\eta$ and $\eta^\prime$.
Furthermore, we discuss some properties of the mass matrix describing the
mixing of the isoscalar scalar mesons.


On the mass relation of a meson nonet

  It is pointed out that the omission of the effects of the transition between
quarkonia or the assumption that the transition between quarkonia is
flavor-independent would result in the inconsistent results for the
pseudoscalar meson nonet. It is emphasized that the mass relation of the
non-ideal mixing meson nonets should incorporate the effects of the
flavor-dependent transition between quarkonia. The new mass relations of a
meson nonet are presented.


Meson spectrum in Regge phenomenology

  Under the assumption that both light and heavy quarkonia populate
approximately linear Regge trajectories with the requirements of additivity of
intercepts and inverse slopes, the masses of different meson multiplets are
estimated. The predictions derived from the quasi-linear Regge trajectories are
in reasonable agreement with those given by many other references.


Entanglement generation in double-$Λ$ system

  In this paper, we study the generation of entanglement in a double-$\Lambda $
system. Employing standard method of laser theory, we deduce the dynamic
evolution equation of the two-mode field. We analyze the available entanglement
criterion for double-$\Lambda $ system and the condition of entanglement
existence. Our results show that under proper parameters, the two-mode field
can entangled and amlified.


Metallic helix array as a broadband wave plate

  This study proposes that a metallic helix array can operate as a
highly-transparent broadband wave plate in propagation directions perpendicular
to the axis of helices. The functionality arises from a special property of the
helix array, namely that the eigenstates of elliptically right-handed and
left-handed polarization are dominated by Bragg scattering and local resonance
respectively, and can be modulated separately with nearly fixed difference
between their wavevectors in a wide frequency range. The wave plate
functionality is theoretically and experimentally demonstrated by the
transformation of polarized states in a wide frequency range.


Deutsch's algorithm with topological charges of optical vortices via
  non-degenerate four-wave mixing

  We propose a scheme to implement the Deutsch's algorithm through
non-degenerate four-wave mixing process. By employing photon topological
charges of optical vortices, we demonstrate the ability to realize the
necessary four logic gates for all balanced and constant functions. We also
analyze the feasibility of the proposed scheme on the single photon level.


Variation of polarization distribution of reflected beam caused by spin
  separation

  The variation of polarization distribution of reflected beam at specular
interface and far field caused by spin separation has been studied. Due to the
diffraction effect, we find a distinct difference of light polarization at the
two regions. The variation of polarization distribution of reflected light
provides a new method to measure the spin separation displacement caused by
Spin Hall Effect of light.


Spin polarization separation of reflected light at Brewster angle

  A novel spin polarization separation of reflected light is observed, when a
linearly polarized Gaussian beam impinges on an air-glass interface at Brewster
angle. In the far-field zone, spins of photons are oppositely polarized in two
regions along the direction perpendicular to incident plane. Spatial scale of
this polarization is related to optical properties of dielectric and can be
controlled by experimental configuration. We believe that this study benefits
the manipulation of spins of photons and the development of methods for
investigating optical properties of materials.


Visual properties of generalized Kloosterman sums

  For a positive integer $m$ and a subgroup $\Lambda$ of the unit group
$(\mathbb{Z}/m\mathbb{Z})^\times$, the corresponding generalized Kloosterman
sum is the function $K(a,b,m,\Lambda) = \sum_{u \in \Lambda}e(\frac{au +
bu^{-1}}{m})$. Unlike classical Kloosterman sums, which are real valued,
generalized Kloosterman sums display a surprising array of visual features when
their values are plotted in the complex plane. In a variety of instances, we
identify the precise number-theoretic conditions that give rise to particular
phenomena.


Structural Changes Related to the Magnetic Transitions in Hexagonal
  InMnO3

  Two magnetic ordering transitions are found in InMnO3, the paramagnetic to
antiferromagnetic transition near ~118 K and a lower possible spin rotation
transition near ~42 K. Multiple length scale structural measurements reveal
enhanced local distortion found to be connected with tilting of the MnO5
polyhedra as temperature is reduced. Strong coupling is observed between the
lattice and the spin manifested as changes in the structure near both of the
magnetic ordering temperatures (at ~42 K and ~ 118 K). External parameters such
as pressure are expected to modify the coupling.


Rotating and accelerating black holes with cosmological constant

  We propose a new form of the rotating C-metric with cosmological constant,
which generalises the form found by Hong and Teo for the Ricci-flat case. This
solution describes the entire class of spherical black holes undergoing
rotation and acceleration in dS or AdS space-time. The new form allows us to
identify the complete ranges of coordinates and parameters of this solution. We
perform a systematic study of its geometrical and physical properties, and of
the various limiting cases that arise from it.


Bidirectional Recurrent Neural Networks for Medical Event Detection in
  Electronic Health Records

  Sequence labeling for extraction of medical events and their attributes from
unstructured text in Electronic Health Record (EHR) notes is a key step towards
semantic understanding of EHRs. It has important applications in health
informatics including pharmacovigilance and drug surveillance. The state of the
art supervised machine learning models in this domain are based on Conditional
Random Fields (CRFs) with features calculated from fixed context windows. In
this application, we explored various recurrent neural network frameworks and
show that they significantly outperformed the CRF models.


