Geometric visualization of self-propulsion in a complex medium

  Combining geometric mechanics theory, laboratory robotic experiment and
numerical simulation, we study the locomotion in granular media (GM) of the
simplest non-inertial swimmer, the Purcell three-link swimmer. Using granular
resistive force laws as inputs, the theory relates translation and rotation of
the body to shape changes (movements of the links). This allows analysis,
visualization, and prediction of effective movements that are verified by
experiment. The geometric approach also facilitates comparison between swimming
in GM and in viscous fluids.


Sidewinding with minimal slip: Snake and robot ascent of sandy slopes

  Limbless organisms such as snakes can navigate nearly all terrain. In
particular, desert-dwelling sidewinder rattlesnakes (Crotalus cerastes) operate
effectively on inclined granular media (such as sand dunes) that induce failure
in field-tested limbless robots through slipping and pitching. Our laboratory
experiments reveal that as granular incline angle increases, sidewinder
rattlesnakes increase the length of their body in contact with the sand.
Implementing this strategy in a physical robot model of the snake enables the
device to ascend sandy slopes close to the angle of maximum slope stability.
Plate drag experiments demonstrate that granular yield stresses decrease with
increasing incline angle. Together, these three approaches demonstrate how
sidewinding with contact-length control mitigates failure on granular media.


Rapid Randomized Restarts for Multi-Agent Path Finding Solvers

  Multi-Agent Path Finding (MAPF) is an NP-hard problem well studied in
artificial intelligence and robotics. It has many real-world applications for
which existing MAPF solvers use various heuristics. However, these solvers are
deterministic and perform poorly on "hard" instances typically characterized by
many agents interfering with each other in a small region. In this paper, we
enhance MAPF solvers with randomization and observe that they exhibit
heavy-tailed distributions of runtimes on hard instances. This leads us to
develop simple rapid randomized restart (RRR) strategies with the intuition
that, given a hard instance, multiple short runs have a better chance of
solving it compared to one long run. We validate this intuition through
experiments and show that our RRR strategies indeed boost the performance of
state-of-the-art MAPF solvers such as iECBS and M*.


Ergodic Coverage In Constrained Environments Using Stochastic Trajectory
  Optimization

  In search and surveillance applications in robotics, it is intuitive to
spatially distribute robot trajectories with respect to the probability of
locating targets in the domain. Ergodic coverage is one such approach to
trajectory planning in which a robot is directed such that the percentage of
time spent in a region is in proportion to the probability of locating targets
in that region. In this work, we extend the ergodic coverage algorithm to
robots operating in constrained environments and present a formulation that can
capture sensor footprint and avoid obstacles and restricted areas in the
domain. We demonstrate that our formulation easily extends to coordination of
multiple robots equipped with different sensing capabilities to perform ergodic
coverage of a domain.


Modelling and Path Planning of Snake Robot in cluttered environment

  Studying snake robot locomotion in a cluttered environment has been a
complicated task because the motion model is discontinuous due to the physical
contact with obstacles, and the contact force cannot be determined solely by
contact positions. We present a unique mathematical model of the robot
interacting with obstacles in which the contact forces are mapped on the basis
of a viscous friction model. Also a motion planning strategy has been
introduced which helps deriving the simplest path that ensures sufficient
number of contacts of the robot with the obstacles required to reach a goal
position. Numerical simulations and experimental results are presented to
validate the theoretical approach.


Trajectory-Optimized Sensing for Active Search of Tissue Abnormalities
  in Robotic Surgery

  In this work, we develop an approach for guiding robots to automatically
localize and find the shapes of tumors and other stiff inclusions present in
the anatomy. Our approach uses Gaussian processes to model the stiffness
distribution and active learning to direct the palpation path of the robot. The
palpation paths are chosen such that they maximize an acquisition function
provided by an active learning algorithm. Our approach provides the flexibility
to avoid obstacles in the robot's path, incorporate uncertainties in robot
position and sensor measurements, include prior information about location of
stiff inclusions while respecting the robot-kinematics. To the best of our
knowledge this is the first work in literature that considers all the above
conditions while localizing tumors. The proposed framework is evaluated via
simulation and experimentation on three different robot platforms: 6-DoF
industrial arm, da Vinci Research Kit (dVRK), and the Insertable Robotic
Effector Platform (IREP). Results show that our approach can accurately
estimate the locations and boundaries of the stiff inclusions while reducing
exploration time.


A surgical system for automatic registration, stiffness mapping and
  dynamic image overlay

  In this paper we develop a surgical system using the da Vinci research kit
(dVRK) that is capable of autonomously searching for tumors and dynamically
displaying the tumor location using augmented reality. Such a system has the
potential to quickly reveal the location and shape of tumors and visually
overlay that information to reduce the cognitive overload of the surgeon. We
believe that our approach is one of the first to incorporate state-of-the-art
methods in registration, force sensing and tumor localization into a unified
surgical system. First, the preoperative model is registered to the
intra-operative scene using a Bingham distribution-based filtering approach. An
active level set estimation is then used to find the location and the shape of
the tumors. We use a recently developed miniature force sensor to perform the
palpation. The estimated stiffness map is then dynamically overlaid onto the
registered preoperative model of the organ. We demonstrate the efficacy of our
system by performing experiments on phantom prostate models with embedded stiff
inclusions.


Trajectory Generation for Millimeter Scale Ferromagnetic Swimmers:
  Theory and Experiments

  Microrobots have the potential to impact many areas such as microsurgery,
micromanipulation and minimally invasive sensing. Due to their small size,
microrobots swim in a regime that is governed by low Reynolds number
hydrodynamics. In this paper, we consider small scale artificial swimmers that
are fabricated using ferromagnetic filaments and locomote in response to time
varying external magnetic fields. We motivate the design of previously proposed
control laws using tools from geometric mechanics and also demonstrate how new
control laws can be synthesized to generate net translation in such swimmers.
We further describe how to modify these control inputs to make the swimmers
track rich trajectories in the workspace by investigating stability properties
of their limit cycles in the orientation angles phase space. Following a
systematic design optimization, we develop a principled approach to encode
internal magnetization distributions in millimeter scale ferromagnetic
filaments. We verify and demonstrate this procedure experimentally and finally
show translation, trajectory tracking and turning in place locomotion in these
optimal swimmers using a Helmholtz coils setup.


Next Generation Robotics

  The National Robotics Initiative (NRI) was launched 2011 and is about to
celebrate its 5 year anniversary. In parallel with the NRI, the robotics
community, with support from the Computing Community Consortium, engaged in a
series of road mapping exercises. The first version of the roadmap appeared in
September 2009; a second updated version appeared in 2013. While not directly
aligned with the NRI, these road-mapping documents have provided both a useful
charting of the robotics research space, as well as a metric by which to
measure progress. This report sets forth a perspective of progress in robotics
over the past five years, and provides a set of recommendations for the future.
The NRI has in its formulation a strong emphasis on co-robot, i.e., robots that
work directly with people. An obvious question is if this should continue to be
the focus going forward? To try to assess what are the main trends, what has
happened the last 5 years and what may be promising directions for the future a
small CCC sponsored study was launched to have two workshops, one in Washington
DC (March 5th, 2016) and another in San Francisco, CA (March 11th, 2016). In
this report we brief summarize some of the main discussions and observations
from those workshops. We will present a variety of background information in
Section 2, and outline various issues related to progress over the last 5 years
in Section 3. In Section 4 we will outline a number of opportunities for moving
forward. Finally, we will summarize the main points in Section 5.


Using Bayesian Optimization to Guide Probing of a Flexible Environment
  for Simultaneous Registration and Stiffness Mapping

  One of the goals of computer-aided surgery is to match intraoperative data to
preoperative images of the anatomy and add complementary information that can
facilitate the task of surgical navigation. In this context, mechanical
palpation can reveal critical anatomical features such as arteries and
cancerous lumps which are stiffer that the surrounding tissue. This work uses
position and force measurements obtained during mechanical palpation for
registration and stiffness mapping. Prior approaches, including our own,
exhaustively palpated the entire organ to achieve this goal. To overcome the
costly palpation of the entire organ, a Bayesian optimization framework is
introduced to guide the end effector to palpate stiff regions while
simultaneously updating the registration of the end effector to an a priori
geometric model of the organ, hence enabling the fusion of ntraoperative data
into the a priori model obtained through imaging. This new framework uses
Gaussian processes to model the stiffness distribution and Bayesian
optimization to direct where to sample next for maximum information gain. The
proposed method was evaluated with experimental data obtained using a Cartesian
robot interacting with a silicone organ model and an ex vivo porcine liver.


Learning to Sequence Robot Behaviors for Visual Navigation

  Recent literature in the robotics community has focused on learning robot
behaviors that abstract out lower-level details of robot control. To fully
leverage the efficacy of such behaviors, it is necessary to select and sequence
them to achieve a given task. In this paper, we present an approach to both
learn and sequence robot behaviors, applied to the problem of visual navigation
of mobile robots. We construct a layered representation of control policies
composed of low- level behaviors and a meta-level policy. The low-level
behaviors enable the robot to locomote in a particular environment while
avoiding obstacles, and the meta-level policy actively selects the low-level
behavior most appropriate for the current situation based purely on visual
feedback. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on three simulated
robot navigation tasks: a legged hexapod robot which must successfully traverse
varying terrain, a wheeled robot which must navigate a maze-like course while
avoiding obstacles, and finally a wheeled robot navigating in the presence of
dynamic obstacles. We show that by learning control policies in a layered
manner, we gain the ability to successfully traverse new compound environments
composed of distinct sub-environments, and outperform both the low-level
behaviors in their respective sub-environments, as well as a hand-crafted
selection of low-level policies on these compound environments.


Distributed Learning of Decentralized Control Policies for Articulated
  Mobile Robots

  State-of-the-art distributed algorithms for reinforcement learning rely on
multiple independent agents, which simultaneously learn in parallel
environments while asynchronously updating a common, shared policy. Moreover,
decentralized control architectures (e.g., CPGs) can coordinate spatially
distributed portions of an articulated robot to achieve system-level
objectives. In this work, we investigate the relationship between distributed
learning and decentralized control by learning decentralized control policies
for the locomotion of articulated robots in challenging environments. To this
end, we present an approach that leverages the structure of the asynchronous
advantage actor-critic (A3C) algorithm to provide a natural means of learning
decentralized control policies on a single articulated robot. Our primary
contribution shows individual agents in the A3C algorithm can be defined by
independently controlled portions of the robot's body, thus enabling
distributed learning on a single robot for efficient hardware implementation.
We present results of closed-loop locomotion in unstructured terrains on a
snake and a hexapod robot, using decentralized controllers learned offline and
online respectively.
  Preprint of the paper submitted to the IEEE Transactions in Robotics (T-RO)
journal in October 2018, and conditionally accepted for publication as a
regular paper in January 2019.


A review on locomotion robophysics: the study of movement at the
  intersection of robotics, soft matter and dynamical systems

  In this review we argue for the creation of a physics of moving systems -- a
locomotion "robophysics" -- which we define as the pursuit of the discovery of
principles of self generated motion. Robophysics can provide an important
intellectual complement to the discipline of robotics, largely the domain of
researchers from engineering and computer science. The essential idea is that
we must complement study of complex robots in complex situations with
systematic study of simplified robophysical devices in controlled laboratory
settings and simplified theoretical models. We must thus use the methods of
physics to examine successful and failed locomotion in simplified (abstracted)
devices using parameter space exploration, systematic control, and techniques
from dynamical systems. Using examples from our and other's research, we will
discuss how such robophysical studies have begun to aid engineers in the
creation of devices that begin to achieve life-like locomotor abilities on and
within complex environments, have inspired interesting physics questions in low
dimensional dynamical systems, geometric mechanics and soft matter physics, and
have been useful to develop models for biological locomotion in complex
terrain. The rapidly decreasing cost of constructing sophisticated robot models
with easy access to significant computational power bodes well for scientists
and engineers to engage in a discipline which can readily integrate experiment,
theory and computation.


PRIMAL: Pathfinding via Reinforcement and Imitation Multi-Agent Learning

  Multi-agent path finding (MAPF) is an essential component of many
large-scale, real-world robot deployments, from aerial swarms to warehouse
automation. However, despite the community's continued efforts, most
state-of-the-art MAPF planners still rely on centralized planning and scale
poorly past a few hundred agents. Such planning approaches are maladapted to
real-world deployments, where noise and uncertainty often require paths be
recomputed online, which is impossible when planning times are in seconds to
minutes. We present PRIMAL, a novel framework for MAPF that combines
reinforcement and imitation learning to teach fully-decentralized policies,
where agents reactively plan paths online in a partially-observable world while
exhibiting implicit coordination. This framework extends our previous work on
distributed learning of collaborative policies by introducing demonstrations of
an expert MAPF planner during training, as well as careful reward shaping and
environment sampling. Once learned, the resulting policy can be copied onto any
number of agents and naturally scales to different team sizes and world
dimensions. We present results on randomized worlds with up to 1024 agents and
compare success rates against state-of-the-art MAPF planners. Finally, we
experimentally validate the learned policies in a hybrid simulation of a
factory mockup, involving both real-world and simulated robots.


