NeuroRule: A Connectionist Approach to Data Mining

  Classification, which involves finding rules that partition a given data set
into disjoint groups, is one class of data mining problems. Approaches proposed
so far for mining classification rules for large databases are mainly decision
tree based symbolic learning methods. The connectionist approach based on
neural networks has been thought not well suited for data mining. One of the
major reasons cited is that knowledge generated by neural networks is not
explicitly represented in the form of rules suitable for verification or
interpretation by humans. This paper examines this issue. With our newly
developed algorithms, rules which are similar to, or more concise than those
generated by the symbolic methods can be extracted from the neural networks.
The data mining process using neural networks with the emphasis on rule
extraction is described. Experimental results and comparison with previously
published works are presented.


Fully Band Resolved Scattering Rate in MgB2 Revealed by Nonlinear Hall
  Effect and Magnetoresistance Measurements

  We have measured the normal state temperature dependence of the Hall effect
and magnetoresistance in epitaxial MgB2 thin films with variable disorders
characterized by the residual resistance ratio RRR ranging from 4.0 to 33.3. A
strong nonlinearity of the Hall effect and magnetoresistance have been found in
clean samples, and they decrease gradually with the increase of disorders or
temperature. By fitting the data to the theoretical model based on the
Boltzmann equation and ab initio calculations for a four-band system, for the
first time, we derived the scattering rates of these four bands at different
temperatures and magnitude of disorders. Our method provides a unique way to
derive these important parameters in multiband systems.


Soliton with a Pion Field in the Global Color Symmetry Model

  We calculate the property of the global color symmetry model soliton with the
pion field being included explicitly. The calculated results indicate that the
pion field provides a strong attraction so that the eigen-energy of a quark and
the mass of a soliton reduce drastically, in contrast to those with only the
sigma field.


On the Phase Transition of Corrupted Sensing

  In \cite{FOY2014}, a sharp phase transition has been numerically observed
when a constrained convex procedure is used to solve the corrupted sensing
problem. In this paper, we present a theoretical analysis for this phenomenon.
Specifically, we establish the threshold below which this convex procedure
fails to recover signal and corruption with high probability. Together with the
work in \cite{FOY2014}, we prove that a sharp phase transition occurs around
the sum of the squares of spherical Gaussian widths of two tangent cones.
Numerical experiments are provided to demonstrate the correctness and sharpness
of our results.


I-V characteristics of the vortex state in MgB2 thin films

  The current-voltage (I-V) characteristics of various MgB2 films have been
studied at different magnetic fields parallel to c-axis. At fields \mu0H
between 0 and 5T, vortex liquid-glass transitions were found in the I-V
isotherms. Consistently, the I-V curves measured at different temperatures show
a scaling behavior in the framework of quasi-two-dimension (quasi-2D) vortex
glass theory. However, at \mu0 H >= 5T, a finite dissipation was observed down
to the lowest temperature here, T=1.7K, and the I-V isotherms did not scale in
terms of any known scaling law, of any dimensionality. We suggest that this may
be caused by a mixture of \sigma band vortices and \pi band quasiparticles.
Interestingly, the I-V curves at zero magnetic field can still be scaled
according to the quasi-2D vortex glass formalism, indicating an equivalent
effect of self-field due to persistent current and applied magnetic field.


Scaling of Hall Resistivity in the Mixed State of MgB2 Films

  The longitudinal resistivity (rho_{xx}) and transverse resistivity (rho_{xy})
of MgB2 thin films in the mixed state were studied in detail. We found that the
temperature dependencies of rho_{xx} and \rho_{xy} at a fixed magnetic field
(H) satisfy the scaling law of $\rho_{xy}=A\rho_{xx}^\beta$, where the exponent
beta varies around 2.0 for different fields. In the low field region (below
1T), beta maintains a constant value of 2.0 due to the weak pinning strength of
the vortices, mainly from the superfluid of the pi band. When H>1T, beta drops
abruptly to its lowest value at about 2T because of the proliferation of
quasiparticles from the pi-band and, hence, the motion of the vortices from the
superfluid of the sigma-band dominates the dissipation. As the field is
increased further, the vortex pinning strength is weakened and beta increases
monotonically towards 2.0 at a high field. All the results presented here are
in good agreement with the expectation of the vortex physics of a multi-band
superconductor.


Phase diagram of Kondo-Heisenberg model on honeycomb lattice with
  geometrical frustration

  We calculated the phase diagram of the Kondo-Heisenberg model on
two-dimensional honeycomb lattice with both nearest-neighbor and
next-nearest-neighbor antiferromagnetic spin exchanges, to investigate the
interplay between RKKY and Kondo interactions at presence of magnetic
frustration. Within a mean-field decoupling technology in slave-fermion
representation, we derived the zero-temperature phase diagram as a function of
Kondo coupling $J_k$ and frustration strength $Q$. The geometrical frustration
can destroy the magnetic order, driving the original antiferromagnetic (AF)
phase to non-magnetic valence bond state (VBS). In addition, we found two
distinct VBS. As $J_k$ is increased, a phase transition from AF to Kondo
paramagnetic (KP) phase occurs, without the intermediate phase coexisting AF
order with Kondo screening found in square lattice systems. In the KP phase,
the enhancement of frustration weakens the Kondo screening effect, resulting in
a phase transition from KP to VBS. We also found a process to recover the AF
order from VBS by increasing $J_k$ in a wide range of frustration strength. Our
work may provide deeper understanding for the phase transitions in
heavy-fermion materials, particularly for those exhibiting triangular
frustration.


Magnetic and topological transitions in three-dimensional topological
  Kondo insulator

  By using an extended slave-boson method, we draw a global phase diagram
summarizing both magnetic phases and paramagnetic (PM) topological insulating
phases (TI$_s$) in three-dimensional topological Kondo insulator (TKI). By
including electron hopping (EH) up to third neighbor, we identify four strong
topological insulating (STI) phases and two weak topological insulating (WTI)
phases, then the PM phase diagrams characterizing topological transitions
between these TI$_s$ are depicted as functions of EH, $f$-electron energy level
and hybridization constant. We also find an insulator-metal transition from a
STI phase which has surface Fermi rings and spin textures in qualitative
agreement to TKI candidate SmB$_6$. In weak hybridization regime,
antiferromagnetic (AF) order naturally arises in the phase diagrams, and
depending on how the magnetic boundary crosses the PM topological transition
lines, AF phases are classified into AF topological insulator (AFTI) and
non-topological AF insulator (nAFI), according to their $\mathcal{Z}_2$
indices. In two small regions of parameter space, two distinct topological
transition processes between AF phases occur, leading to two types of AFTI,
showing distinguishable surface dispersions around their Dirac points.


Investigating Thermal Cooling Mechanisms of Human Body Under Exposure to
  Electromagnetic Radiation

  Thermal cooling mechanisms of human exposed to electromagnetic (EM) radiation
are studied in detail. The electromagnetic and thermal co-simulation method is
utilized to calculate the electromagnetic and temperature distributions.
Moreover, Pennes' bioheat equation is solved to understand different thermal
cooling mechanisms including blood flow, convective cooling and radiative
cooling separately or jointly. Numerical results demonstrate the
characteristics and functions for each cooling mechanism. Different from the
traditional view that the cooling effect of blood is usually reflected by its
influence on sweat secretion and evaporation, our study indicates that the
blood flow itself is an important factor of thermal cooling especially for
high-intensity EM radiation. This work contributes to fundamental understanding
of thermal cooling mechanisms of human.


Dose conversion coefficients for Chinese reference adult male and female
  voxel phantoms from idealized neutron exposures

  A new set of fluence-to-dose conversion coefficients based on the Chinese
reference adult voxel phantoms CRAM and CRAF are presented for six idealized
external neutron exposures from 10-8 MeV to 20 MeV. The voxel phantoms CRAM and
CRAF were adjusted from the previous phantoms CNMAN and CNWM respectively, and
the masses of individual organs have been adjusted to the Chinese reference
data. The calculation of organ-absorbed doses and effective doses were
performed with the Monte Carlo transport code MCNPX. The resulting dose
conversion coefficients were compared with those published in ICRP Publication
116, which represents the reference Caucasian. The organ-absorbed dose
conversion coefficients of most organs are in good agreement with the results
in ICRP Publication 116, however, obvious discrepancies are observed for some
organs and certain geometries. For neutrons with energies above 2 MeV, the
effective dose conversion coefficients of Chinese reference adult are almost
identical to those of ICRP Publication 116 in AP, PA, ROT and ISO geometries.
When energies range from 10-8 MeV to 1 MeV, differences are within 10% in AP
(5%), PA (8%) and ROT (-4%) geometries. However, relatively large discrepancies
are shown in lateral and ISO geometries when energies are below 1 MeV, with
differences of -15% for LLAT, -20% for RLAT and -12% for ISO, respectively.


Application of Hilbert-Huang decomposition to reduce noise and
  characterize for NMR FID signal of proton precession magnetometer

  The parameters in a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) free induction decay
(FID) signal contain information that is useful in magnetic field measurement,
magnetic resonance sounding (MRS) and other related applications. A real time
sampled FID signal is well modeled as a finite mixture of exponential sequences
plus noise. We propose to use the Hilbert-Huang Transform (HHT) for noise
reduction and characterization, where the generalized Hilbert-Huang represents
a way to decompose a signal into so-called intrinsic mode function (IMF) along
with a trend, and obtain instantaneous frequency data. Moreover, the HHT for an
FID signal's feature analysis is applied for the first time. First, acquiring
the actual untuned FID signal by a developed prototype of proton magnetometer,
and then the empirical mode decomposition (EMD) is performed to decompose the
noise and original FID. Finally, the HHT is applied to the obtained IMFs to
extract the Hilbert energy spectrum, to indicate the energy distribution of the
signal on the frequency axis. By theory analysis and the testing of an actual
FID signal, the results show that, compared with general noise reduction
methods such as auto correlation and singular value decomposition (SVD),
combined with the proposed method can further suppress the interfered signals
effectively, and can obtain different components of FID signal, which can use
to identify the magnetic anomaly, the existence of groundwater etc. This is a
very important property since it can be exploited to separate the FID signal
from noise and to estimate exponential sequence parameters of FID signal.


Nanophotonic cavity optomechanics with propagating phonons in microwave
  Ku band

  Sideband-resolved coupling between multiple photonic nanocavities and
propagating mechanical waves in microwave Ku-band is demonstrated. Coherent and
strong photon-phonon interaction is manifested with optomechanically induced
transparency and absorption, and phase-coherent interaction in multiple
cavities. Inside an echo chamber it is shown that a phonon pulse can interact
with an embedded nanocavity for multiple times. Our device provides a scalable
platform to optomechanically couple phonons and photons for microwave photonics
and quantum photonics.


Spin filtering in transition-metal phthalocyanine molecules from first
  principles

  Using first-principles calculations based on density functional theory and
the nonequilibrium Green function formalism, we studied the spin transport
through metal-phthalocyanine (MPc, M=Ni, Fe, Co, Mn, Cr) molecules connected to
aurum nanowire electrodes. We found that the MnPc, FePc, and CrPc molecular
devices exhibit a perfect spin filtering effect compared to CoPc and NiPc.
Moreover, negative differential resistance appears in FePc molecular devices.
The transmission coefficients at different bias voltages were further presented
to understand this phenomenon. These results would be useful in designing
devices for future nanotechnology.


Heroes and Zeroes: Predicting the Impact of New Video Games on Twitch.tv

  Video games and the playing thereof have been a fixture of American culture
since their introduction in the arcades of the 1980s. However, it was not until
the recent proliferation of broadband connections robust and fast enough to
handle live video streaming that players of video games have transitioned from
a content consumer role to a content producer role. Simultaneously, the rise of
social media has revealed how interpersonal connections drive user engagement
and interest. In this work, we discuss the recent proliferation of video game
streaming, particularly on Twitch.tv, analyze trends and patterns in video game
viewing, and develop predictive models for determining if a new game will have
substantial impact on the streaming ecosystem.


Thermal rectification and heat amplification in a nonequilibrium V-type
  three-level system

  Thermal rectification and heat amplification are investigated in a
nonequilibrium V-type three-level system with quantum interference. By applying
the Redfield master equation combined with full counting statistics, we analyze
the steady state heat transport. The noise-induced interference is found to be
able to rectify the heat current, which paves a new way to design quantum
thermal rectifier. Within the three-reservoir setup, the heat amplification is
clearly identified far-from equilibrium, which is in absence of the negative
differential thermal conductance.


Variation of a Signal in Schwarzschild Spacetime

  In this paper, the variation of a signal in Schwarzschild spacetime is
studied and a general equation for frequency shift parameter (FSP) is
presented. It shows that FSP depends on the gravitationally-modified Doppler
effects and the gravitational effects of observers. In addition, rates of time
of a transmitter and a receiver may be different. When FSP is a function of the
time of a receiver, FSP contributed by gravitational effect (GFSP) or
gravitationally-modified Doppler effect (GMDFSP) may lead a bandlimited signal
to a non-bandlimited signal. Based on the equation, FSP as a function of the
time of a receiver is calculated for three scenarios: a) a spaceship moves away
from a star with a constant velocity communicating with a transmitter at a
fixed position; b) a spaceship moves around a star with different conic
trajectories communicating with a transmitter at a fixed position; c) a signal
is transmitted at a fixed position in a star system to a receiver moving with
an elliptical trajectory in another star system. The studied stars are sun-like
star, white dwarf and neutron star, and some numerical examples are presented
to illustrate the theory.


Data-driven physics informed deep learning of solute transport with
  anomalous diffusion

  The fractional advection-dispersion equation (FADE) has attracted increased
attention from researchers as it provides an accurate description for
challenging phenomenas with long-range time memory and spatial interactions,
such as the anomalous diffusion behavior in the solute transport in porous
media. Practically, a full characterization of the model parameters, such as
the fluid velocity, dispersion coefficient and the order of the fractional
derivative, often implies a huge amount of experiments and measurements and
thus are hard to be determined. In this paper, we employ the framework of
feedforward deep neural networks (DNNs) to develop an efficient data-driven
deep learning algorithm for inferring the aforementioned parameters of the
FADE, such as the time-dependent space-fractional advection-dispersion equation
(sFADE) and the variable-order fractional mobile/immobile equation (VoFMIE), in
which the feedforward DNNs are trained to minimize the mean square error loss
function formulated by means of the finite difference approximations of sFADE
and VoFMIE, respectively. Several numerical experiments, in which we discover
the model parameters by the feedforward DNNs for both the synthetic and field
data, are presented to demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of the
proposed data-driven deep learning algorithm.


Multi-band superconductivity and possible nodal gap in
  RbCr$_{3}$As$_{3}$ revealed by Andreev reflection and single-particle
  tunneling measurements

  By measuring point-contact Andreev reflection spectra in the newly discovered
chromium-based quasi-one-dimensional superconductor RbCr$_{3}$As$_{3}$, we find
clear evidence of two superconducting components, one has a gap value of about
1.8 meV and another about 5 meV. Detailed analysis finds that the larger gap
possesses an $s$-wave nature, but the smaller gap exhibits a sharp peak feature
near zero energy on the Andreev reflection spectrum manifesting a possible
nodal gap. We then carry out the single-particle tunneling measurements based
on a scanning tunneling spectroscopy (STS) by using the needle-like sample as
the tip, and in this case the measuring current is parallel to the $k_z$ or
[(Cr$_{3}$As$_{3}$)$^{-}$]$_\infty$-chain direction. The single-particle
tunneling spectra show only one gap feature with the gap value of about 1.8
meV. Fitting to the single particle tunneling spectra tells that the gap should
have a large anisotropy or even node(s). We argue that the smaller gap may be
mainly contributed by the hybridized Fermi surface with a large weight coming
from the quasi-1D bands. Therefore our results from combinatorial experiments
of Andreev reflection and STS are consistent with the theoretical predictions
for multi-band superconductivity and a possible $p$-wave superconducting gap
along the [(Cr$_{3}$As$_{3}$)$^{-}$]$_\infty$-chain direction.


On the Anisotropy of Nuclei Mid-Infrared Radiation in Nearby Active
  Galactic Nuclei

  In the center of active galactic nuclei (AGN), the dusty torus absorb the
radiation from the central engine and re-emit in mid-infrared (MIR).
Observations have detected moderate anisotropy in the dust MIR emission, in the
way that type 1 AGNs (type1s) are mildly brighter in MIR comparing with type 2
sources (type2s). However, type1s and type2s were found to follow statistically
the same tight MIR -- hard X-ray correlation, suggesting the MIR emission is
highly isotropic assuming the hard X-ray radiation is inclination independent.
We argue this discrepancy could be solved considering the hard X-ray emission
in AGN is also mildly anisotropic as we recently discovered. To verify this
diagram, we compare the sub-arcsecond 12\mu m flux densities of type1s and
type2s using [OIV]$\lambda$25.89\mu m emission line as an isotropic luminosity
indicator. We find that on average type1s are brighter in nuclei 12\mu m
radiation by a factor of $2.6 \pm 0.6$ than type2s at given
[OIV]$\lambda$25.89\mu m luminosities, confirming the mild anisotropy of the
nuclei 12\mu m emission. We show that the anisotropy of the 12\mu m emission we
detected is in good agreement with radiative transfer models of clumpy torus.
The fact that type 1 and type 2 AGNs follow the same tight MIR -- hard X-ray
correlation instead supports that both the MIR and hard X-ray emission in AGNs
are mildly anisotropic.


Phase evolution of the two-dimensional Kondo lattice model near
  half-filling

  Within a mean-field approximation, the ground state and finite temperature
phase diagrams of the two-dimensional Kondo lattice model have been carefully
studied as functions of the Kondo coupling $J$ and the conduction electron
concentration $n_{c}$. In addition to the conventional hybridization between
local moments and itinerant electrons, a staggered hybridization is proposed to
characterize the interplay between the antiferromagnetism and the Kondo
screening effect. As a result, a heavy fermion antiferromagnetic phase is
obtained and separated from the pure antiferromagnetic ordered phase by a
first-order Lifshitz phase transition, while a continuous phase transition
exists between the heavy fermion antiferromagnetic phase and the Kondo
paramagnetic phase. We have developed a efficient theory to calculate these
phase boundaries. As $n_{c}$ decreases from the half-filling, the region of the
heavy fermion antiferromagnetic phase shrinks and finally disappears at a
critical point $n_{c}^{*}=0.8228$, leaving a first-order critical line between
the pure antiferromagnetic phase and the Kondo paramagnetic phase for
$n_{c}<n_{c}^{* }$. At half-filling limit, a finite temperature phase diagram
is also determined on the Kondo coupling and temperature ($J$-$T$) plane.
Notably, as the temperature is increased, the region of the heavy fermion
antiferromagnetic phase is reduced continuously, and finally converges to a
single point, together with the pure antiferromagnetic phase and the Kondo
paramagnetic phase. The phase diagrams with such triple point may account for
the observed phase transitions in related heavy fermion materials.


Atomically-thin Femtojoule Filamentary Memristor

  The morphology and dimension of the conductive filament formed in a
memristive device are strongly influenced by the thickness of its switching
medium layer. Aggressive scaling of this active layer thickness is critical
towards reducing the operating current, voltage and energy consumption in
filamentary type memristors. Previously, the thickness of this filament layer
has been limited to above a few nanometers due to processing constraints,
making it challenging to further suppress the on-state current and the
switching voltage. Here, we study the formation of conductive filaments in a
material medium with sub-nanometer thickness, formed through the oxidation of
atomically-thin two-dimensional boron nitride. The resulting memristive device
exhibits sub-nanometer filamentary switching with sub-pA operation current and
femtojoule per bit energy consumption. Furthermore, by confining the filament
to the atomic scale, we observe current switching characteristics that are
distinct from that in thicker medium due to the profoundly different atomic
kinetics. The filament morphology in such an aggressively scaled memristive
device is also theoretically explored. These ultra-low energy devices are
promising for realizing femtojoule and sub-femtojoule electronic computation,
which can be attractive for applications in a wide range of electronics systems
that desire ultra-low power operation.


Phase Transition of Convex Programs for Linear Inverse Problems with
  Multiple Prior Constraints

  A sharp phase transition emerges in convex programs when solving the linear
inverse problem, which aims to recover a structured signal from its linear
measurements. This paper studies this phenomenon in theory under Gaussian
random measurements. Different from previous studies, in this paper, we
consider convex programs with multiple prior constraints. These programs are
encountered in many cases, for example, when the signal is sparse and its
$\ell_2$ norm is known beforehand, or when the signal is sparse and
non-negative simultaneously. Given such a convex program, to analyze its phase
transition, we introduce a new set and a new cone, called the prior restricted
set and prior restricted cone, respectively. Our results reveal that the phase
transition of a convex problem occurs at the statistical dimension of its prior
restricted cone. Moreover, to apply our theoretical results in practice, we
present two recipes to accurately estimate the statistical dimension of the
prior restricted cone. These two recipes work under different conditions, and
we give a detailed analysis for them. To further illustrate our results, we
apply our theoretical results and the estimation recipes to study the phase
transition of two specific problems, and obtain computable formulas for the
statistical dimension and related error bounds. Simulations are provided to
demonstrate our results.


$\mathcal{Z}_2$ classification for a novel antiferromagnetic topological
  insulating phase in three-dimensional topological Kondo insulator

  Antiferromagnetic topological insulator (AFTI) is a topological matter that
breaks time-reversal symmetry. Since its proposal, explorations of AFTI in
strong-correlated systems are still lacking. In this paper, we show for the
first time that a novel AFTI phase can be realized in three-dimensional
topological Kondo insulator (TKI). In a wide parameter region, the ground
states of TKI undergo a second-order transition to antiferromagnetic insulating
phases which conserve a combined symmetry of time reversal and a lattice
translation, allowing us to derive a $\mathcal{Z}_2$-classification formula for
these states. By calculating the $\mathcal{Z}_2$ index, the antiferromagnetic
insulating states are classified into (AFTI) or non-topological
antiferromagnetic insulator (nAFI) in different parameter regions. On the
antiferromagnetic surfaces in AFTI, we find topologically protected gapless
Dirac cones inside the bulk gap, leading to metallic Fermi rings exhibiting
helical spin texture with weak spin-momentum locking. Depending on model
parameters, the magnetic transitions take place either between AFTI and strong
topological insulator, or between nAFI and weak topological insulator. By
varying some model parameters, we find a topological transition between AFTI
and nAFI, driving by closing of bulk gap. Our work may account for the
pressure-induced magnetism in TKI compound SmB$_6$, and helps to explore richer
AFTI phases in heavy-fermion systems as well as in other strong-correlated
systems.


Distribution of high-dimensional orbital angular momentum entanglement
  at telecom wavelength over 1km OAM fiber

  High-dimensional entanglement has exhibited its massive potential in
increasing channel capacity and resistance to noise in quantum information
processing. However, its distribution is quite a challenging task, imposing a
severe restriction on its application. Here we report the first distribution of
three-dimensional orbital angular momentum(OAM) entanglement via a 1-km-length
OAM fiber. Using an actively-stabilizing phase precompensation technique, we
successfully transport one photon of a three-dimensional OAM entangled photon
pair through the fiber. The distributed OAM entangled state still shows a
fidelity up to 71% with respect to the three-dimensional
maximal-entangled-state (MES). In addition, we certify that the
high-dimensional quantum entanglement survives the transportation by employing
generalized Bell inequality, obtaining a violation of ~3 standard deviations
with I3=2.12(0.04). The method we developed can be extended to higher OAM
dimension and larger distance in principle. Our results make a significant step
towards future OAM-based high-dimensional long distance quantum communication.


Chemical Potential Dependence of Chiral Quark Condensate in
  Dyson-Schwinger Equation Approach of QCD

  We propose a chemical potential dependent effective gluon propagator and
study the chiral quark condensate in strongly interacting matter in the
framework of Dyson-Schwinger equation approach. The obtained results manifest
that, as the effect of the chemical potential on the effective gluon propagator
is taken into account, the chiral quark condensate decreases gradually with the
increasing of the chemical potential if it is less than the critical value, and
the condensate vanishes suddenly at the critical chemical potential. The
inclusion of the chemical potential in the effective gluon propagator enhances
the decreasing rate and decreases the critical chemical potential. It indicates
that the chiral symmetry can be restored completely at a critical chemical
potential and restored partially as the chemical potential is less than the
critical value. If the effective gluon propagator is independent of the
chemical potential, the chiral symmetry can only be restored suddenly but no
gradual restoration.


Dyson-Schwinger Equation and Quantum Phase Transitions in Massless QCD

  We study the stability of the highest symmetric solution (Wigner-solution) of
Dyson-Schwinger equations in chiral limit and at zero temperature. Our results
confirm that if the chemical potential is not very large, the QCD vacuum is in
the chiral symmetry breaking phase and the quantum phase-transition of the
chiral symmetry restoration is in first order. Meanwhile it seems that there is
not competition between chiral symmetry breaking phase and color
superconductivity phase since the color superconductivity phase appears only if
the chemical potential is very large. Moreover, we propose that chiral symmetry
breaking arises from the positive feedback with respect to the mass
perturbation.


Modeling of Multipath Transport

  In this paper, we propose a model for evaluating the transmission performance
of multipath transport. Previous researches focused exclusively on single pair
users in simple scenarios. The distinct perspective in this paper is to build
models for analyzing the performance when multipath transport is used in the
entire network scope. We illustrate the influences on the transmission
performance caused by the variation of network topologies, the services'
arrival rate, the services' size and other parameters. We demonstrate through
simulation that multipath transport could conditionally increase the throughput
than single-path transport. And it has the capability to support higher
services' arrival rate in various network topologies. And higher multi-parent
probability will be beneficial for multipath transport to take its advantages.


Exact Subspace Segmentation and Outlier Detection by Low-Rank
  Representation

  In this work, we address the following matrix recovery problem: suppose we
are given a set of data points containing two parts, one part consists of
samples drawn from a union of multiple subspaces and the other part consists of
outliers. We do not know which data points are outliers, or how many outliers
there are. The rank and number of the subspaces are unknown either. Can we
detect the outliers and segment the samples into their right subspaces,
efficiently and exactly? We utilize a so-called {\em Low-Rank Representation}
(LRR) method to solve this problem, and prove that under mild technical
conditions, any solution to LRR exactly recovers the row space of the samples
and detect the outliers as well. Since the subspace membership is provably
determined by the row space, this further implies that LRR can perform exact
subspace segmentation and outlier detection, in an efficient way.


Where are your eyes going to look during reading? A critical evaluation
  of saccade targeting hypothesis

  The word-based account of saccades drawn by a central gravity of the PVL is
supported by two pillars of evidences. The first is the finding of the initial
fixation location on a word resembled a normal distribution (Rayner, 1979). The
other is the finding of a moderate slope coefficient between the launch site
and the landing site (b=0.49, see McConkie, Kerr, Reddix, & Zola, 1988). Four
simulations on different saccade targeting strategies and one eye-movement
experiment of Chinese reading have been conducted to evaluate the two findings.
We demonstrated that the current understanding of the word-based account is not
conclusive by showing an alternative strategy of the word-based account and
identifying the problem with the calculation of the slope coefficient. Although
almost all the computational models of eye-movement control during reading have
built on the two findings, future efforts should be directed to understand the
precise contribution of different saccade targeting strategies, and to know how
their weighting might vary across desperate writing systems.


On the initial- and boundary-value problem for 2D micropolar equations
  with only angular velocity dissipation

  This paper focuses on the initial- and boundary-value problem for the
two-dimensional micropolar equations with only angular velocity dissipation in
a smooth bounded domain. The aim here is to establish the global existence and
uniqueness of solutions by imposing natural boundary conditions and minimal
regularity assumptions on the initial data. Besides, the global solution is
shown to possess higher regularity when the initial datum is more regular. To
obtain these results, we overcome two main difficulties, one due to the lack of
full dissipation and one due to the boundary conditions. In addition to the
global regularity problem, we also examine the large-time behavior of solutions
and obtain explicit decay rates.


Heterogeneous Supervision for Relation Extraction: A Representation
  Learning Approach

  Relation extraction is a fundamental task in information extraction. Most
existing methods have heavy reliance on annotations labeled by human experts,
which are costly and time-consuming. To overcome this drawback, we propose a
novel framework, REHession, to conduct relation extractor learning using
annotations from heterogeneous information source, e.g., knowledge base and
domain heuristics. These annotations, referred as heterogeneous supervision,
often conflict with each other, which brings a new challenge to the original
relation extraction task: how to infer the true label from noisy labels for a
given instance. Identifying context information as the backbone of both
relation extraction and true label discovery, we adopt embedding techniques to
learn the distributed representations of context, which bridges all components
with mutual enhancement in an iterative fashion. Extensive experimental results
demonstrate the superiority of REHession over the state-of-the-art.


Revisiting the Equation of State of Hybrid Stars in the Dyson-Schwinger
  Equation Approach to QCD

  We investigate the equation of state(EoS) and the effect of the hadron-quark
phase transition of strong interaction matter in compact stars. The hadron
matter is described with the relativistic mean field theory,and the quark
matter is described with the Dyson-Schwinger equation approach of QCD. The
complete EoS of the hybrid star matter is constructed with not only the Gibbs
construction but also the 3-window interpolation. The mass-radius relation of
hybrid stars is also investigated. We find that, although the EoSs of both the
hadron matter with hyperon and $\Delta$-baryon and the quark matter are
generally softer than that of the nucleon matter, the 3-window interpolation
construction may provide an EoS stiff enough for a hybrid star with mass
exceeding 2$M_{\odot}^{}$ and, in turn, solve the so called "hyperon puzzle".


Feshbach Loss Spectroscopy in an Ultracold $^{23}$Na and $^{40}$K
  Mixture

  We perform Feshbach spectroscopy in an ultracold mixture of $^{23}$Na and
$^{40}$K with different spin-state combinations. We have observed 24 new
interspecies Feshbach resonances at magnetic field up to 350 G. A full
coupled-channel calculation is performed to assign these resonances. Among
them, 12 resonances are identified as d-wave Feshbach resonances. These d-wave
Feshbach resonances are about 5 G systematically smaller than the predications
based on previous model potential. Taking into account these new experimental
results, we improve the Born-Oppenheimer potentials between Na and K, and
achieve good agreement between the theory and experiment for all the observed
Feshbach resonances.


Theoretical Analysis on Deflagration-to-Detonation Transition

  The study on deflagration-to-detonation transition (DDT) is very important
because this mechanism has relevance to safety issues in industries, where
combustible premixed gases are in general use. However, the quantitative
prediction of DDT is one of the major unsolved problems in combustion and
detonation theory to date. In this paper, the DDT process is studied
theoretically and the critical condition is given by a concise theoretical
expression. The results show that a deflagration wave propagating with about
60% Chapman-Jouguet (C-J) detonation velocity is a critical condition. This
velocity is the maximum propagating velocity of a deflagration wave and almost
equal to the sound speed of combustion products. When this critical conation is
reached, a C-J detonation is triggered immediately. This is the quantitative
criteria of the DDT process.


Observation of magnetically tunable Feshbach resonances in ultracold
  $^{23}$Na$^{40}$K+$^{40}$K collisions

  Resonances in ultracold collisions involving heavy molecules are difficult to
understand, and have proven challenging to detect. Here we report the
observation of magnetically tunable Feshbach resonances in ultracold collisions
between $^{23}$Na$^{40}$K molecules in the rovibrational ground state and
$^{40}$K atoms. We prepare the atoms and molecules in various hyperfine levels
of their ground states and observe the loss of molecules as a function of the
magnetic field. The atom-molecule Feshbach resonances are identified by
observing an enhancement of the loss rate coefficients. We have observed three
resonances at approximately 101 G in various atom-molecule scattering channels,
with the widths being a few hundred milliGauss. The observed atom-molecule
Feshbach resonances at ultralow temperatures probe the three-body potential
energy surface with an unprecedented resolution. Our work will help to improve
the understanding of complicated ultracold collisions, and open up the
possibility of creating ultracold triatomic molecules.


Experimental investigating communication in a superposition of causal
  orders

  Quantum mechanics allows for the superposition of quantum states, thereby
bringing about the great success of quantum communications. Recently, in the
so-called quantum switch, the relative orders between quantum operations can
also be coherently controlled with the help of an auxiliary system. In
conventional quantum Shannon theory, however, communication channels are
assumed to be combined in a classical way. Relaxing this assumption, it was
shown theoretically that one can transmit information through a quantum switch.
Here, we experimentally demonstrate this enhancement on the rates of
communication for both classical and quantum information with the help of an
optical quantum switch. Our results present evidence of the advantages of the
superposition of causal orders in the communications domain.


Localization from Incomplete Euclidean Distance Matrix: Performance
  Analysis for the SVD-MDS Approach

  Localizing a cloud of points from noisy measurements of a subset of pairwise
distances has applications in various areas, such as sensor network
localization and reconstruction of protein conformations from NMR measurements.
In [1], Drineas et al. proposed a natural two-stage approach, named SVD-MDS,
for this purpose. This approach consists of a low-rank matrix completion
algorithm, named SVD-Reconstruct, to estimate random missing distances, and the
classic multidimensional scaling (MDS) method to estimate the positions of
nodes. In this paper, we present a detailed analysis for this method. More
specifically, we first establish error bounds for Euclidean distance matrix
(EDM) completion in both expectation and tail forms. Utilizing these results,
we then derive the error bound for the recovered positions of nodes. In order
to assess the performance of SVD-Reconstruct, we present the minimax lower
bound of the zero-diagonal, symmetric, low-rank matrix completion problem by
Fano's method. This result reveals that when the noise level is low, the
SVD-Reconstruct approach for Euclidean distance matrix completion is suboptimal
in the minimax sense; when the noise level is high, SVD-Reconstruct can achieve
the optimal rate up to a constant factor.


Allocating Limited Resources to Protect a Massive Number of Targets
  using a Game Theoretic Model

  Resource allocation is the process of optimizing the rare resources. In the
area of security, how to allocate limited resources to protect a massive number
of targets is especially challenging. This paper addresses this resource
allocation issue by constructing a game theoretic model. A defender and an
attacker are players and the interaction is formulated as a trade-off between
protecting targets and consuming resources. The action cost which is a
necessary role of consuming resource, is considered in the proposed model.
Additionally, a bounded rational behavior model (Quantal Response, QR), which
simulates a human attacker of the adversarial nature, is introduced to improve
the proposed model. To validate the proposed model, we compare the different
utility functions and resource allocation strategies. The comparison results
suggest that the proposed resource allocation strategy performs better than
others in the perspective of utility and resource effectiveness.


Online Newton Step Algorithm with Estimated Gradient

  Online learning with limited information feedback (bandit) tries to solve the
problem where an online learner receives partial feedback information from the
environment in the course of learning. Under this setting, Flaxman et al.[8]
extended Zinkevich's classical Online Gradient Descent (OGD) algorithm [29] by
proposing the Online Gradient Descent with Expected Gradient (OGDEG) algorithm.
Specifically, it uses a simple trick to approximate the gradient of the loss
function $f_t$ by evaluating it at a single point and bounds the expected
regret as $\mathcal{O}(T^{5/6})$ [8], where the number of rounds is $T$.
Meanwhile, past research efforts have shown that compared with the first-order
algorithms, second-order online learning algorithms such as Online Newton Step
(ONS) [11] can significantly accelerate the convergence rate of traditional
online learning algorithms. Motivated by this, this paper aims to exploit the
second-order information to speed up the convergence of the OGDEG algorithm. In
particular, we extend the ONS algorithm with the trick of expected gradient and
develop a novel second-order online learning algorithm, i.e., Online Newton
Step with Expected Gradient (ONSEG). Theoretically, we show that the proposed
ONSEG algorithm significantly reduces the expected regret of OGDEG algorithm
from $\mathcal{O}(T^{5/6})$ to $\mathcal{O}(T^{2/3})$ in the bandit feedback
scenario. Empirically, we further demonstrate the advantages of the proposed
algorithm on multiple real-world datasets.


An adaptive routing strategy for packet delivery in complex networks

  We present an efficient routing approach for delivering packets in complex
networks. On delivering a message from a node to a destination, a node forwards
the message to a neighbor by estimating the waiting time along the shortest
path from each of its neighbors to the destination. This projected waiting time
is dynamical in nature and the path through which a message is delivered would
be adapted to the distribution of messages in the network. Implementing the
approach on scale-free networks, we show that the present approach performs
better than the shortest-path approach and another approach that takes into
account of the waiting time only at the neighboring nodes. Key features in
numerical results are explained by a mean field theory. The approach has the
merit that messages are distributed among the nodes according to the
capabilities of the nodes in handling messages.


Chemical potential and the gap equation

  In general the kernel of QCD's gap equation possesses a domain of analyticity
upon which the equation's solution at nonzero chemical potential is simply
obtained from the in-vacuum result through analytic continuation. On this
domain the single-quark number- and scalar-density distribution functions are
mu-independent. This is illustrated via two models for the gap equation's
kernel. The models are alike in concentrating support in the infrared. They
differ in the form of the vertex but qualitatively the results are largely
insensitive to the Ansatz. In vacuum both models realise chiral symmetry in the
Nambu-Goldstone mode and in the chiral limit, with increasing chemical
potential, exhibit a first-order chiral symmetry restoring transition at
mu~M(0), where M(p^2) is the dressed-quark mass function. There is evidence to
suggest that any associated deconfinement transition is coincident and also of
first-order.


Dynamics of glass phases in the two-dimensional gauge glass model

  Large-scale simulations have been performed on the current-driven
two-dimensional XY gauge glass model with resistively-shunted-junction
dynamics. It is observed that the linear resistivity at low temperatures tends
to zero, providing strong evidence of glass transition at finite temperature.
Dynamic scaling analysis demonstrates that perfect collapses of current-voltage
data can be achieved with the glass transition temperature $T_{g}=0.22$, the
correlation length critical exponent $\nu =1.8$, and the dynamic critical
exponent $ z=2.0$. A genuine continuous depinning transition is found at zero
temperature. For creeping at low temperatures, critical exponents are evaluated
and a non-Arrhenius creep motion is observed in the glass phase.


Cold quarks in medium: an equation of state

  We derive a compact, semi-algebraic expression for the cold quark matter
equation of state (EoS) in a covariant model that exhibits coincident
deconfinement and chiral symmetry restoring transitions in-medium. Along the
way we obtain algebraic expressions for: the number- and scalar-density
distributions in both the confining Nambu and deconfined Wigner phases; and the
vacuum-pressure difference between these phases, which defines a bag constant.
The confining interaction materially alters the distribution functions from
those of a Fermi gas and consequently has a significant impact on the model's
thermodynamic properties, which is apparent in the EoS.


Dyson-Schwinger Equations with a Parameterized Metric

  We construct and solve the Dyson-Schwinger equation (DSE) of quark propagator
with a parameterized metric, which connects the Euclidean metric with the
Minkowskian one. We show, in some models, the Minkowskian vacuum is different
from the Euclidean vacuum. The usual analytic continuation of Green function
does not make sense in these cases. While with the algorithm we proposed and
the quark-gluon vertex ansatz which preserves the Ward-Takahashi identity, the
vacuum keeps being unchanged in the evolution of the metric. In this case,
analytic continuation becomes meaningful and can be fully carried out.


Phase diagram and critical endpoint for strongly-interacting quarks

  We introduce a method based on the chiral susceptibility, which enables one
to draw a phase diagram in the chemical-potential/temperature plane for
strongly-interacting quarks whose interactions are described by any reasonable
gap equation, even if the diagrammatic content of the quark-gluon vertex is
unknown. We locate a critical endpoint (CEP) at (\mu^E,T^E) ~ (1.0,0.9)T_c,
where T_c is the critical temperature for chiral symmetry restoration at \mu=0;
and find that a domain of phase coexistence opens at the CEP whose area
increases as a confinement length-scale grows.


Internet Resource Pricing Models, Mechanisms, and Methods

  With the fast development of video and voice network applications, CDN
(Content Distribution Networks) and P2P (Peer-to-Peer) content distribution
technologies have gradually matured. How to effectively use Internet resources
thus has attracted more and more attentions. For the study of resource pricing,
a whole pricing strategy containing pricing models, mechanisms and methods
covers all the related topics. We first introduce three basic Internet resource
pricing models through an Internet cost analysis. Then, with the evolution of
service types, we introduce several corresponding mechanisms which can ensure
pricing implementation and resource allocation. On network resource pricing
methods, we discuss the utility optimization in economics, and emphasize two
classes of pricing methods (including system optimization and entities'
strategic optimizations). Finally, we conclude the paper and forecast the
research direction on pricing strategy which is applicable to novel service
situation in the near future.


Phase transition in site-diluted Josephson junction arrays: A numerical
  study

  We numerically investigate the intriguing effects produced by random
percolative disorder in two-dimensional Josephson-junction arrays. By dynamic
scaling analysis, we evaluate critical temperatures and critical exponents with
high accuracy. It is observed that, with the introduction of site-diluted
disorder, the Kosterlitz-Thouless phase transition is eliminated and evolves
into a continuous transition with power-law divergent correlation length.
Moreover, genuine depinning transition and creep motion are studied, evidence
for distinct creep motion types is provided. Our results not only are in good
agreement with the recent experimental findings, but also shed some light on
the relevant phase transitions.


When is it Biased? Assessing the Representativeness of Twitter's
  Streaming API

  Twitter has captured the interest of the scientific community not only for
its massive user base and content, but also for its openness in sharing its
data. Twitter shares a free 1% sample of its tweets through the "Streaming
API", a service that returns a sample of tweets according to a set of
parameters set by the researcher. Recently, research has pointed to evidence of
bias in the data returned through the Streaming API, raising concern in the
integrity of this data service for use in research scenarios. While these
results are important, the methodologies proposed in previous work rely on the
restrictive and expensive Firehose to find the bias in the Streaming API data.
In this work we tackle the problem of finding sample bias without the need for
"gold standard" Firehose data. Namely, we focus on finding time periods in the
Streaming API data where the trend of a hashtag is significantly different from
its trend in the true activity on Twitter. We propose a solution that focuses
on using an open data source to find bias in the Streaming API. Finally, we
assess the utility of the data source in sparse data situations and for users
issuing the same query from different regions.


From Tweets to Events: Exploring a Scalable Solution for Twitter Streams

  The unprecedented use of social media through smartphones and other
web-enabled mobile devices has enabled the rapid adoption of platforms like
Twitter. Event detection has found many applications on the web, including
breaking news identification and summarization. The recent increase in the
usage of Twitter during crises has attracted researchers to focus on detecting
events in tweets. However, current solutions have focused on static Twitter
data. The necessity to detect events in a streaming environment during fast
paced events such as a crisis presents new opportunities and challenges. In
this paper, we investigate event detection in the context of real-time Twitter
streams as observed in real-world crises. We highlight the key challenges in
this problem: the informal nature of text, and the high volume and high
velocity characteristics of Twitter streams. We present a novel approach to
address these challenges using single-pass clustering and the compression
distance to efficiently detect events in Twitter streams. Through experiments
on large Twitter datasets, we demonstrate that the proposed framework is able
to detect events in near real-time and can scale to large and noisy Twitter
streams.


Negative Link Prediction in Social Media

  Signed network analysis has attracted increasing attention in recent years.
This is in part because research on signed network analysis suggests that
negative links have added value in the analytical process. A major impediment
in their effective use is that most social media sites do not enable users to
specify them explicitly. In other words, a gap exists between the importance of
negative links and their availability in real data sets. Therefore, it is
natural to explore whether one can predict negative links automatically from
the commonly available social network data. In this paper, we investigate the
novel problem of negative link prediction with only positive links and
content-centric interactions in social media. We make a number of important
observations about negative links, and propose a principled framework NeLP,
which can exploit positive links and content-centric interactions to predict
negative links. Our experimental results on real-world social networks
demonstrate that the proposed NeLP framework can accurately predict negative
links with positive links and content-centric interactions. Our detailed
experiments also illustrate the relative importance of various factors to the
effectiveness of the proposed framework.


