Hypersurfaces with constant anisotropic mean curvatures

  We apply the evolution method to present a new proof of the Alexandrov type
theorem for constant anisotropic mean curvature hypersurfaces in the Euclidean
space $\mathbb{R}^{n+1}$.


Strong uniqueness for a class of singular SDEs for catalytic branching
  diffusions

  A new result for the strong uniqueness for catalytic branching diffusions is
established, which improves the work of Dawson, D.A.; Fleischmann, K.; Xiong,
J.[Strong uniqueness for cyclically symbiotic branching diffusions. Statist.
Probab. Lett. 73, no. 3, 251--257 (2005)].


Size effects on excitons in nano-rings

  The size effects of an exciton in a nano-ring are investigated theoretically
by using an effective-mass Hamiltonian which can be separated in terms of the
center-of-mass and relative coordinates. The binding energy and oscillator
strength of the ground state are calculated for two different ring radii as a
function of the ring width. The resulting linear optical susceptibility of the
low-lying exciton states is also discussed.


Topological defect lasers

  We demonstrate topological defect lasers in a GaAs membrane with embedded
InAs quantum dots. By introducing a disclination to a square-lattice of
elliptical air holes, we obtain spatially confined optical resonances with high
quality factor. Such resonances support powerflow vortices, and lase upon
optical excitation of quantum dots, embedded in the structure. The spatially
inhomogeneous variation of the unit cell orientation adds another dimension to
the control of a lasing mode, enabling the manipulation of its field pattern
and energy flow landscape.


Every component of a fractal square is a Peano continuum

  This paper concerns the local connectedness of components of self-similar
sets. Given an equal partition of the unit square into n*n small squares, we
may choose arbitrarily two or more of them and form an iterated function
system. The attractor F resulted from this IFS is called a fractal square. We
prove that every component of F is locally connected. The same result for
three-dimensional analogues of F does not hold.


Studies on the switching speed effect of the phase shift keying in SLED
  for generating high power microwave

  SLAC energy doubler (SLED) type radio-frequency pulse compressors are widely
used in large-scale particle accelerators for converting long-duration
moderate-power input pulse into short-duration high-power output pulse. The
phase shift keying (PSK) is one of the key components in SLED pulse compression
systems. Performance of the PSK will influence the output characteristics of
SLED, such as rise-time of the output pulse, the maximal peak power gain, and
the energy efficiency. In this paper, high power microwave source based on
power combining and pulse compression of conventional klystrons was introduced,
the nonideal PSK with slow switching speed and without power output during the
switching process were investigated, the experimental results with nonideal PSK
agreed well with the analytical results.


High power microwave system based on power combining and pulse
  compression of conventional klystrons

  A high power microwave system based on power combining and pulse compression
of conventional klystrons is introduced in this paper. This system mainly
consists of pulse modulator, power combiner, driving source of klystrons and
pulse compressor. A solid state induction modulator and pulse transformer were
used to drive two 50 MW S-band klystrons with pulse widths 4 {\mu}s in
parallel, after power combining and pulse compression, the tested peak power
had reached about 210 MW with pulse widths nearly 400 ns at 25 Hz, while the
experimental maximum output power was just limited by the power capacity of
loads. This type of high power microwave system has widely application prospect
in RF system of large scale particle accelerators, high power radar
transmitters and high level electromagnetic environment generators.


Spatio-temporal Control of Light Transmission through a Multimode Fiber
  with Strong Mode Coupling

  We experimentally generate and characterize the eigenstates of the
Wigner-Smith time-delay matrix, called principal modes, in a multimode fiber
with strong mode coupling. The unique spectral and temporal properties of
principal modes enable a global control of the temporal dynamics of optical
pulses transmitted through the fiber, despite random mode mixing. Our analysis
reveals that the well-defined delay time of the eigenstates are formed by
multi-path interference, which can be effectively manipulated by the spatial
degrees of freedom of the input wavefront. This study is essential to
controlling the dynamics of wave scattering, paving the way for coherent
control of pulse propagation through complex media.


Principal modes in multimode fibers: exploring the crossover from weak
  to strong mode coupling

  We present experimental and numerical studies on principal modes in a
multimode fiber with mode coupling. By applying external stress to the fiber
and gradually adjusting the stress, we have realized a transition from weak to
strong mode coupling, which corresponds to the transition from single
scattering to multiple scattering in mode space. Our experiments show that
principal modes have distinct spatial and spectral characteristic in the weak
and strong mode coupling regimes. We also investigate the bandwidth of the
principal modes, in particular, the dependence of the bandwidth on the delay
time, and the effects of the mode-dependent loss. By analyzing the path-length
distributions, we discover two distinct mechanisms that are responsible for the
bandwidth of principal modes in weak and strong mode coupling regimes. Taking
into account the mode-dependent loss in the fiber, our numerical results are in
good agreement with our experimental observations. Our study paves the way for
exploring potential applications of principal modes in communication, imaging
and spectroscopy.


Complete Polarization Control in Multimode Fibers with Polarization and
  Mode Coupling

  Multimode optical fibers have seen increasing applications in communication,
imaging, high-power lasers and amplifiers. However, inherent imperfections and
environmental perturbations cause random polarization and mode mixing, making
the output polarization states very different from the input one. This poses a
serious issue for employing polarization sensitive techniques to control
light-matter interactions or nonlinear optical processes at the distal end of a
fiber probe. Here we demonstrate a complete control of polarization states for
all output channels by only manipulating the spatial wavefront of a laser beam
into the fiber. Arbitrary polarization states for individual output channels
are generated by wavefront shaping without constraint on input polarizations.
The strong coupling between spatial and polarization degrees of freedom in a
multimode fiber enables full polarization control with spatial degrees of
freedom alone, transforming a multimode fiber to a highly-efficient
reconfigurable matrix of waveplates.


Spatio-temporal correlations in multimode fibers for pulse delivery

  Long-range speckle correlations play an essential role in wave transport
through disordered media, but have rarely been studied in other complex
systems. Here we discover spatio-temporal intensity correlations for an optical
pulse propagating through a multimode fiber with strong random mode coupling.
Positive long-range correlations arise from multiple scattering in fiber mode
space and depend on the statistical distribution of arrival times. By
optimizing the incident wavefront of a pulse, we maximize the power transmitted
at a selected time, and such control is significantly enhanced by the
long-range spatio-temporal correlations. We provide an explicit relation
between the correlations and the enhancements, which closely agrees with
experimental data. Our work shows that multimode fibers provide a fertile
ground for studying complex wave phenomena, and the strong spatio-temporal
correlations can be employed for efficient power delivery at a well-defined
time.


Energy levels and far-infrared spectroscopy for two electrons in a
  semiconductor nanoring

  The effects of electron-electron interaction of a two-electron nanoring on
the energy levels and far-infrared (FIR) spectroscopy have been investigated
based on a model calculation which is performed within the exactly numerical
diagonalization. It is found that the interaction changes the energy spectra
dramatically, and also shows significant influence on the FIR spectroscopy. The
crossings between the lowest spin-singlet and triplet states induced by the
coulomb interaction are clearly revealed. Our results are related to the
experiment recently carried out by A. Lorke et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 2223
(2000)].


Effects of arbitrarily directed field on spin phase oscillations in
  biaxial molecular magnets

  Quantum phase interference and spin-parity effects are studied in biaxial
molecular magnets in a magnetic field at an arbitrarily directed angle. The
calculations of the ground-state tunnel splitting are performed on the basis of
the instanton technique in the spin-coherent-state path-integral
representation, and complemented by exactly numerical diagonalization. Both the
Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin exponent and the preexponential factor are obtained
for the entire region of the direction of the field. Our results show that the
tunnel splitting oscillates with the field for the small field angle, while for
the large field angle the oscillation is completely suppressed. This distinct
angular dependence, together with the dependence of the tunnel splitting on the
field strengh, provide an independent test for spin-parity effects in biaxial
molecular magnets. The analytical results for the molecular Fe$_{8}$ magnet,
are found to be in good areement with the numerical simulations, which suggests
that even the molecular magnet with total spin S=10 is large enough to be
treated as a giant spin system.


Macroscopic quantum coherence in antiferromagnetic molecular magnets

  The macroscopic quantum coherence in a biaxial antiferromagnetic molecular
magnet in the presence of magnetic field acting parallel to its hard anisotropy
axis is studied within the two-sublattice model. On the basis of instanton
technique in the spin-coherent-state path-integral representation, both the
rigorous Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin exponent and preexponential factor for the
ground-state tunnel splitting are obtained. We find that the quantum
fluctuations around the classical paths can not only induce a new quantum phase
previously reported by Chiolero and Loss (Phys. Rev. Lett. 80, 169 (1998)), but
also have great influnence on the intensity of the ground-state tunnel
splitting. Those features clearly have no analogue in the ferromagnetic
molecular magnets. We suggest that they may be the universal behaviors in all
antiferromagnetic molecular magnets. The analytical results are complemented by
exact diagonalization calculation.


Low energy exciton states in a nanoscopic semiconducting ring

  We consider an effective mass model for an electron-hole pair in a simplified
confinement potential, which is applicable to both a nanoscopic self-assembled
semiconducting InAs ring and a quantum dot. The linear optical susceptibility,
proportional to the absorption intensity of near-infrared transmission, is
calculated as a function of the ring radius $% R_0$. Compared with the
properties of the quantum dot corresponding to the model with a very small
radius $R_0$, our results are in qualitative agreement with the recent
experimental measurements by Pettersson {\it et al}.


Aharonov-Bohm effect of excitons in nano-rings

  The magnetic field effects on excitons in an InAs nano-ring are studied
theoretically. By numerically diagonalizing the effective-mass Hamiltonian of
the problem, which can be separated into terms in centre-of-mass and relative
coordinates, we calculate the low-lying exciton energy levels and oscillator
strengths as a function of the width of the ring and the strength of the
external magnetic field. The analytical results are obtained for a narrow-width
nano-ring in which the radial motion is the fastest one and adiabatically
decoupled from the azimuthal motions. It is shown that in the presence of
Coulomb correlation, the so called Aharonov-Bohm effect of excitons exists in a
finite (but small) width nano-ring. However, when the ring width becomes large,
the non-simply-connected geometry of nano-rings is destroyed and in turn yields
the suppression of Aharonov-Bohm effect. The conditional probability
distribution calculated for the low-lying exction states allows identification
of the presence of Aharonov-Bohm effect. The linear optical susceptibility is
also calculated as a function of the magnetic field, to be confronted with the
future measurements of optical emission experiments on InAs nano-rings.


Polaron in a non-abelian Aubry-André-Harper model with \textit{p}-wave
  superfluidity

  We theoretically investigate the behavior of a mobile impurity immersed in a
one-dimensional quasi-periodic Fermi system with topological $p$-wave
superfluidity. This polaron problem is solved by using a standard variational
approach, the so-called Chevy ansatz. The polaron states are found to be
strongly affected by the strength of the quasi-disorder and the amplitude of
the $p$-wave pairing. We analyze the phase diagram of the polaron ground state
and find four phases: two extended phases, a weakly-localized phase and a
strongly-localized phase. It is remarkable that these polaron phases are
directly corresponding to the four distinct phases experienced by the
underlying background Fermi system. In particular, the weakly-localized polaron
phase corresponds to an intriguing critical phase of the Fermi system.
Therefore, the different phases of the background system can be unambiguously
probed by measuring the polaron properties via radio-frequency spectroscopy. We
also investigate the high-lying excited polaron states at an infinite
temperature and address the possibility of studying many-body localization
(MBL) of these states. We find that the introduction of $p$-wave pairing may
delocalize the many-body localized states and make the system easier to
thermalize. Our results could be observed in current state-of-the-art cold-atom
experiments.


Soliton Solutions on Noncommutative Orbifold $T^{2N}/G$

  In this paper, we construct the common eigenstates of "translation" operators
$\{U_{s}\}$ and establish the generalized $Kq$ representation on integral
noncommutative torus $T^{2N}$. We then study the finite rotation group $G$ in
noncommutative space as a mapping in the $Kq$ representation and prove a
Blocking Theorem. We finally obtain the complete set of projection operators on
the integral noncommutative orbifold $T^{2N}/G$ in terms of the generalized
$Kq$ representation. Since projectors are soliton solutions on noncommutative
space in the limit $\alpha ^{\prime}B_{ij}\to \infty (\Theta_{ij}/\alpha
^{\prime}\to 0)$, we thus obtain all soliton solutions on that orbifold
$T^{2N}/G$.


Emergence of Symmetry in Complex Networks

  Many real networks have been found to have a rich degree of symmetry, which
is a very important structural property of complex network, yet has been rarely
studied so far. And where does symmetry comes from has not been explained. To
explore the mechanism underlying symmetry of the networks, we studied
statistics of certain local symmetric motifs, such as symmetric bicliques and
generalized symmetric bicliques, which contribute to local symmetry of
networks. We found that symmetry of complex networks is a consequence of
similar linkage pattern, which means that nodes with similar degree tend to
share similar linkage targets. A improved version of BA model integrating
similar linkage pattern successfully reproduces the symmetry of real networks,
indicating that similar linkage pattern is the underlying ingredient that
responsible for the emergence of the symmetry in complex networks.


Symmetry based Structure Entropy of Complex Networks

  Precisely quantifying the heterogeneity or disorder of a network system is
very important and desired in studies of behavior and function of the network
system. Although many degree-based entropies have been proposed to measure the
heterogeneity of real networks, heterogeneity implicated in the structure of
networks can not be precisely quantified yet. Hence, we propose a new structure
entropy based on automorphism partition to precisely quantify the structural
heterogeneity of networks. Analysis of extreme cases shows that entropy based
on automorphism partition can quantify the structural heterogeneity of networks
more precisely than degree-based entropy. We also summarized symmetry and
heterogeneity statistics of many real networks, finding that real networks are
indeed more heterogenous in the view of automorphism partition than what have
been depicted under the measurement of degree based entropies; and that
structural heterogeneity is strongly negatively correlated to symmetry of real
networks.


Direct Observation of Whispering Gallery Mode Polaritons and Their
  Dispersion in a ZnO Tapered Microcavity

  We report direct observation of the strong exciton-photon coupling in ZnO
tapered whispering gallery (WG) microcavity at room temperature. By scanning
excitations along the tapered arm of ZnO tetrapod using micro-photoluminescence
spectrometer with different polarizations, we observed a transition from the
pure WG optical modes in the weak interaction regime to the excitonic polariton
in the strong coupling regime. The experimental observations are well described
by using the plane wave model including excitonic polariton dispersion
relation. This provides a direct mapping of the polariton dispersion, and thus
a comprehensive picture for coupling of different excitons with differently
polarized WG modes.


Network Quotients: Structural Skeletons of Complex Systems

  A defining feature of many large empirical networks is their intrinsic
complexity. However, many networks also contain a large degree of structural
repetition. An immediate question then arises: can we characterize essential
network complexity while excluding structural redundancy?
  In this article we utilize inherent network symmetry to collapse all
redundant information from a network, resulting in a coarse-graining which we
show to carry the essential structural information of the `parent' network. In
the context of algebraic combinatorics, this coarse-graining is known as the
\emph{quotient}. We systematically explore the theoretical properties of
network quotients and summarize key statistics of a variety of `real-world'
quotients with respect to those of their parent networks. In particular, we
find that quotients can be substantially smaller than their parent networks yet
typically preserve various key functional properties such as complexity
(heterogeneity and hubs vertices) and communication (diameter and mean geodesic
distance), suggesting that quotients constitute the essential structural
skeleton of their parent network. We summarize with a discussion of potential
uses of quotients in analysis of biological regulatory networks and ways in
which using quotients can reduce the computational complexity of network
algorithms.


Broadband electrical detection of spin excitations in (Ga,Mn)As using a
  photovoltage technique

  We report on microwave photovoltage and simultaneous magnetotransport
measurements in a (Ga,Mn)As film oriented normal to the magnetic field. We
detect the ferromagnetic resonance over a broad frequency range of 2 GHz to
18.5 GHz and determine the spectroscopic g-factor and separate the Gilbert from
the inhomogeneous contribution to magnetization relaxation. Temperature
dependent measurements below the saturation magnetization indicate that the
photovoltage signal can serve as a sensitive tool to study the crystal
anisotropy. We demonstrate that the combination of spin dynamics with charge
transport is a promising tool to study microstructured ferromagnetic
semiconductor samples.


A Social Influence Model Based On Circuit Theory

  Understanding the behaviors of information propagation is essential for the
effective exploitation of social influence in social networks. However, few
existing influence models are tractable and efficient for describing the
information propagation process, especially when dealing with the difficulty of
incorporating the effects of combined influences from multiple nodes. To this
end, in this paper, we provide a social influence model that alleviates this
obstacle based on electrical circuit theory. This model vastly improves the
efficiency of measuring the influence strength between any pair of nodes, and
can be used to interpret the real-world influence propagation process in a
coherent way. In addition, this circuit theory model provides a natural
solution to the social influence maximization problem. When applied to
realworld data, the circuit theory model consistently outperforms the
state-of-the-art methods and can greatly alleviate the computation burden of
the influence maximization problem.


Developing an aqueous approach for synthesizing Au and M@Au (M = Pd,
  CuPt) hybrid nanostars with plasmonic properties

  Anisotropic Au nanoparticles show unique localized surface plasmon resonance
(LSPR) properties, which make it attractive in optical, sensing, and biomedical
applications. In this contribution, we report a general and facile strategy
towards aqueous synthesis of Au and M@Au (M = Pd, CuPt) hybrid nanostars by
reducing HAuCl4 with ethanolamine in the presence of cetyltrimethylammonium
bromide (CTAB). According to electron microscopic observation and spectral
monitoring, we found that the layered epitaxial growth mode (i.e., Frank-van
der Merwe mechanism) contributes to the enlargement of the core, while, the
random attachment of Au nanoclusters onto the cores accounts for the formation
of the branches. Both of them are indispensable for the formation of the
nanostars. The LSPR properties of the Au nanoparticles have been well
investigated with morphology control via precursor amount and growth
temperature. The Au nanostars showed improved surface-enhanced Raman
spectroscopy (SERS) performance for rhodamine 6G due to their sharp edges and
tips, which were therefore confirmed as good SERS substrate to detect trace
amount of molecules.


Super- and Anti-Principal Modes in Multi-Mode Waveguides

  We introduce a new type of states for light in multimode waveguides featuring
strongly enhanced or reduced spectral correlations. Based on the experimentally
measured multi-spectral transmission matrix of a multimode fiber, we generate a
set of states that outperform the established "principal modes" in terms of the
spectral stability of their output spatial field profiles. Inverting this
concept also allows us to create states with a minimal spectral correlation
width, whose output profiles are considerably more sensitive to a frequency
change than typical input wavefronts. The resulting "super-" and
"anti-principal" modes are made orthogonal to each other even in the presence
of mode-dependent loss. By decomposing them in the principal mode basis, we
show that the super-principal modes are formed via interference of principal
modes with closeby delay times, whereas the anti-principal modes are a
superposition of principal modes with the most different delay times available
in the fiber. Such novel states are expected to have broad applications in
fiber communication, imaging, and spectroscopy.


Isomer-Dependent Fragmentation Dynamics of Inner-Shell Photoionized
  Difluoroiodobenzene

  The fragmentation dynamics of 2,6- and 3,5-difluoroiodobenzene after iodine
4$d$ inner-shell photoionization with soft X-rays are studied using coincident
electron and ion momentum imaging. By analyzing the momentum correlation
between iodine and fluorine cations in three-fold ion coincidence events, we
can distinguish the two isomers experimentally. Classical Coulomb explosion
simulations are in overall agreement with the experimentally determined
fragment ion kinetic energies and momentum correlations and point toward
different fragmentation mechanisms and time scales. While most three-body
fragmentation channels show clear evidence for sequential fragmentation on a
time scale larger than the rotational period of the fragments, the breakup into
iodine and fluorine cations and a third charged co-fragment appears to occur
within a few hundred femtoseconds -- a time scale larger than the rotational
period of the fragments, the breakup in other channels appears to occur within
a few hundred femtoseconds.


Photonic crystals with topological defects

  We introduce topological defect to a square lattice of elliptical cylinders.
Despite the broken translational symmetry, the long-range positional order of
the cylinders leads to residual photonic bandgap in the density of optical
states. However, the band-edge modes are strongly modified by the spatial
variation of ellipse orientation. The $\Gamma-X$ band-edge mode splits into
four regions of high intensity and the output flux becomes asymmetric due to
the formation of crystalline domains with different orientation. The $\Gamma-M$
band-edge mode has the energy flux circulates around the topological defect
center, creating an optical vortex. By removing the elliptical cylinders at the
center, we create localized defect states which are dominated by either
clockwise or counter-clockwise circulating waves. The flow direction can be
switched by changing the ellipse orientation. The deterministic aperiodic
variation of the unit cell orientation adds another dimension to the control of
light in photonic crystals, enabling creation of diversified field pattern and
energy flow landscape.


Topological semimetal state and field-induced Fermi surface
  reconstruction in antiferromagnetic monopnictide NdSb

  We report the experimental realization of Dirac semimetal state in NdSb, a
material with antiferromagnetic ground state. The occurrence of topological
semimetal state has been well supported by our band structure calculations and
the experimental observation of chiral anomaly induced negative
magnetoresistance. A field-induced Fermi surface reconstruction is observed, in
response to the change of spin polarization. The observation of topological
semimetal state in a magnetic material provides an opportunity to investigate
the magneto-topological phenomena.


Dynamic Word Embeddings for Evolving Semantic Discovery

  Word evolution refers to the changing meanings and associations of words
throughout time, as a byproduct of human language evolution. By studying word
evolution, we can infer social trends and language constructs over different
periods of human history. However, traditional techniques such as word
representation learning do not adequately capture the evolving language
structure and vocabulary. In this paper, we develop a dynamic statistical model
to learn time-aware word vector representation. We propose a model that
simultaneously learns time-aware embeddings and solves the resulting "alignment
problem". This model is trained on a crawled NYTimes dataset. Additionally, we
develop multiple intuitive evaluation strategies of temporal word embeddings.
Our qualitative and quantitative tests indicate that our method not only
reliably captures this evolution over time, but also consistently outperforms
state-of-the-art temporal embedding approaches on both semantic accuracy and
alignment quality.


Risk-Averse Classification

  We develop a new approach to solving classification problems, which is bases
on the theory of coherent measures of risk and risk sharing ideas. The proposed
approach aims at designing a risk-averse classifier. The new approach allows
for associating distinct risk functional to each classes. The risk may be
measured by different (non-linear in probability) measures,
  We analyze the structure of the new classifier design problem and establish
its theoretical relation to known risk-neutral design problems. In particular,
we show that the risk-sharing classification problem is equivalent to an
implicitly defined optimization problem with unequal, implicitly defined but
unknown, weights for each data point. We implement our methodology in a binary
classification scenario on several different data sets and carry out numerical
comparison with classifiers which are obtained using the Huber loss function
and other loss functions known in the literature. We formulate specific
risk-averse support vector machines in order to demonstrate the viability of
our method.


A Single-species Atomic Co-magnetometer Based on 87Rb atoms

  The co-magnetometer has been one of the most sensitive device to test new
physics related to spin-dependent interactions. But the co-magnetometers based
on overlapping ensembles of different spin species usually suffer from
systematic errors resulting from magnetic field gradients. Here we propose a
co-magnetometer based on the Zeeman transitions of the two hyperfine levels in
the ground state 87Rb atoms. It shows nearly negligible sensitivity to the
variations of laser power and frequency, magnetic field, and magnetic
gradients. In the preliminary experiment, it holds the potential to reach
10^(-17) eV level for measuring the hypothetical spin-dependent gravitational
energy of the proton. Moreover, its performance can be further improved through
optimization of the 87Rb cell and experiment setup.


Bilinear Representation for Language-based Image Editing Using
  Conditional Generative Adversarial Networks

  The task of Language-Based Image Editing (LBIE) aims at generating a target
image by editing the source image based on the given language description. The
main challenge of LBIE is to disentangle the semantics in image and text and
then combine them to generate realistic images. Therefore, the editing
performance is heavily dependent on the learned representation. In this work,
conditional generative adversarial network (cGAN) is utilized for LBIE. We find
that existing conditioning methods in cGAN lack of representation power as they
cannot learn the second-order correlation between two conditioning vectors. To
solve this problem, we propose an improved conditional layer named Bilinear
Residual Layer (BRL) to learning more powerful representations for LBIE task.
Qualitative and quantitative comparisons demonstrate that our method can
generate images with higher quality when compared to previous LBIE techniques.


Floquet engineering to exotic topological phases in cold-atom systems

  Topological phases with large topological numbers have been widely studied as
an typical class of exotic states of matter with potentially important
applications. Although several models have been shown to support states with
large topological numbers, they are difficult to realize in solid systems due
to the complexity of various intervening factors. Inspired by the realization
of synthetic spin-orbit coupling in cold-atom system [Z. Wu, {\it et al.},
Science \textbf{354}, 83 (2016)], we propose a periodic quenching scheme to
realize large-topological-number phases in optical lattices. Via introducing
the periodic quenching to the Raman lattice, it is found that a large number of
topological edge states can be induced in a controllable manner from the static
topologically trivial system. Our result provides an experimentally accessible
method to artificially synthesize and manipulate exotic topological states with
large topological numbers.


Detecting Blackholes and Volcanoes in Directed Networks

  In this paper, we formulate a novel problem for finding blackhole and volcano
patterns in a large directed graph. Specifically, a blackhole pattern is a
group which is made of a set of nodes in a way such that there are only inlinks
to this group from the rest nodes in the graph. In contrast, a volcano pattern
is a group which only has outlinks to the rest nodes in the graph. Both
patterns can be observed in real world. For instance, in a trading network, a
blackhole pattern may represent a group of traders who are manipulating the
market. In the paper, we first prove that the blackhole mining problem is a
dual problem of finding volcanoes. Therefore, we focus on finding the blackhole
patterns. Along this line, we design two pruning schemes to guide the blackhole
finding process. In the first pruning scheme, we strategically prune the search
space based on a set of pattern-size-independent pruning rules and develop an
iBlackhole algorithm. The second pruning scheme follows a divide-and-conquer
strategy to further exploit the pruning results from the first pruning scheme.
Indeed, a target directed graphs can be divided into several disconnected
subgraphs by the first pruning scheme, and thus the blackhole finding can be
conducted in each disconnected subgraph rather than in a large graph. Based on
these two pruning schemes, we also develop an iBlackhole-DC algorithm. Finally,
experimental results on real-world data show that the iBlackhole-DC algorithm
can be several orders of magnitude faster than the iBlackhole algorithm, which
has a huge computational advantage over a brute-force method.


Y Chromosomes of 40% Chinese Are Descendants of Three Neolithic
  Super-grandfathers

  Demographic change of human populations is one of the central questions for
delving into the past of human beings. To identify major population expansions
related to male lineages, we sequenced 78 East Asian Y chromosomes at 3.9 Mbp
of the non-recombining region (NRY), discovered >4,000 new SNPs, and identified
many new clades. The relative divergence dates can be estimated much more
precisely using molecular clock. We found that all the Paleolithic divergences
were binary; however, three strong star-like Neolithic expansions at ~6 kya
(thousand years ago) (assuming a constant substitution rate of 1e-9/bp/year)
indicates that ~40% of modern Chinese are patrilineal descendants of only three
super-grandfathers at that time. This observation suggests that the main
patrilineal expansion in China occurred in the Neolithic Era and might be
related to the development of agriculture.


Heterogeneous Metric Learning with Content-based Regularization for
  Software Artifact Retrieval

  The problem of software artifact retrieval has the goal to effectively locate
software artifacts, such as a piece of source code, in a large code repository.
This problem has been traditionally addressed through the textual query. In
other words, information retrieval techniques will be exploited based on the
textual similarity between queries and textual representation of software
artifacts, which is generated by collecting words from comments, identifiers,
and descriptions of programs. However, in addition to these semantic
information, there are rich information embedded in source codes themselves.
These source codes, if analyzed properly, can be a rich source for enhancing
the efforts of software artifact retrieval. To this end, in this paper, we
develop a feature extraction method on source codes. Specifically, this method
can capture both the inherent information in the source codes and the semantic
information hidden in the comments, descriptions, and identifiers of the source
codes. Moreover, we design a heterogeneous metric learning approach, which
allows to integrate code features and text features into the same latent
semantic space. This, in turn, can help to measure the artifact similarity by
exploiting the joint power of both code and text features. Finally, extensive
experiments on real-world data show that the proposed method can help to
improve the performances of software artifact retrieval with a significant
margin.


Investigation of intergranular bright points from the New Vacuum Solar
  Telescope

  Six high-resolution TiO-band image sequences from the New Vacuum Solar
Telescope (NVST) are used to investigate the properties of intergranular bright
points (igBPs). We detect the igBPs using a Laplacian and morphological
dilation algorithm (LMD) and track them using a three-dimensional segmentation
algorithm automatically, and then investigate the morphologic, photometric and
dynamic properties of igBPs, in terms of equivalent diameter, the intensity
contrast, lifetime, horizontal velocity, diffusion index, motion range and
motion type. The statistical results confirm the previous studies based on
G-band or TiO-band igBPs from the other telescopes. It illustrates that the TiO
data from the NVST have a stable and reliable quality, which are suitable for
studying the igBPs. In addition, our method is feasible to detect and track the
igBPs in the TiO data from the NVST. With the aid of the vector magnetograms
obtained from the Solar Dynamics Observatory /Helioseismic and Magnetic Imager,
the properties of igBPs are found to be influenced by their embedded magnetic
environments strongly. The area coverage, the size and the intensity contrast
values of igBPs are generally larger in the regions with higher magnetic flux.
However, the dynamics of igBPs, including the horizontal velocity, the
diffusion index, the ratio of motion range and the index of motion type are
generally larger in the regions with lower magnetic flux. It suggests that the
absence of strong magnetic fields in the medium makes it possible for the igBPs
to look smaller and weaker, diffuse faster, move faster and further in a
straighter path.


A Linear Circuit Model For Social Influence Analysis

  Understanding the behaviors of information propagation is essential for the
effective exploitation of social influence in social networks. However, few
existing influence models are both tractable and efficient for describing the
information propagation process and quantitatively measuring social influence.
To this end, in this paper, we develop a linear social influence model, named
Circuit due to its close relation to the circuit network. Based on the
predefined four axioms of social influence, we first demonstrate that our model
can efficiently measure the influence strength between any pair of nodes. Along
this line, an upper bound of the node(s)' influence is identified for potential
use, e.g., reducing the search space. Furthermore, we provide the physical
implication of the Circuit model and also a deep analysis of its relationships
with the existing methods, such as PageRank. Then, we propose that the Circuit
model provides a natural solution to the problems of computing each single
node's authority and finding a set of nodes for social influence maximization.
At last, the effectiveness of the proposed model is evaluated on the real-world
data. The extensive experimental results demonstrate that Circuit model
consistently outperforms the state-of-the-art methods and can greatly alleviate
the computation burden of the influence maximization problem.


Structural Analysis of User Choices for Mobile App Recommendation

  Advances in smartphone technology have promoted the rapid development of
mobile apps. However, the availability of a huge number of mobile apps in
application stores has imposed the challenge of finding the right apps to meet
the user needs. Indeed, there is a critical demand for personalized app
recommendations. Along this line, there are opportunities and challenges posed
by two unique characteristics of mobile apps. First, app markets have organized
apps in a hierarchical taxonomy. Second, apps with similar functionalities are
competing with each other. While there are a variety of approaches for mobile
app recommendations, these approaches do not have a focus on dealing with these
opportunities and challenges. To this end, in this paper, we provide a
systematic study for addressing these challenges. Specifically, we develop a
Structural User Choice Model (SUCM) to learn fine-grained user preferences by
exploiting the hierarchical taxonomy of apps as well as the competitive
relationships among apps. Moreover, we design an efficient learning algorithm
to estimate the parameters for the SUCM model. Finally, we perform extensive
experiments on a large app adoption data set collected from Google Play. The
results show that SUCM consistently outperforms state-of-the-art top-N
recommendation methods by a significant margin.


Impulsively Generated Wave Trains in Coronal Structures: I. Effects of
  Transverse Structuring on Sausage Waves in Pressureless Tubes

  The behavior of the axial group speeds of trapped sausage modes plays an
important role in determining impulsively generated wave trains, which have
often been invoked to account for quasi-periodic signals with quasi-periods of
order seconds in a considerable number of coronal structures. We conduct a
comprehensive eigenmode analysis, both analytically and numerically, on the
dispersive properties of sausage modes in pressureless tubes with three
families of continuous radial density profiles. We find a rich variety of the
dependence on the axial wavenumber $k$ of the axial group speed $v_{\rm gr}$.
Depending on the density contrast and profile steepness as well as on the
detailed profile description, the $v_{\rm gr}-k$ curves either possess or do
not possess cutoff wavenumbers, and they can behave in either a monotonical or
non-monotonical manner. With time-dependent simulations, we further show that
this rich variety of the group speed characteristics heavily influences the
temporal evolution and Morlet spectra of impulsively generated wave trains. In
particular, the Morlet spectra can look substantially different from "crazy
tadpoles" found for the much-studied discontinuous density profiles. We
conclude that it is necessary to re-examine available high-cadence data to look
for the rich set of temporal and spectral features, which can be employed to
discriminate between the unknown forms of the density distributions transverse
to coronal structures.


REMIX: Automated Exploration for Interactive Outlier Detection

  Outlier detection is the identification of points in a dataset that do not
conform to the norm. Outlier detection is highly sensitive to the choice of the
detection algorithm and the feature subspace used by the algorithm. Extracting
domain-relevant insights from outliers needs systematic exploration of these
choices since diverse outlier sets could lead to complementary insights. This
challenge is especially acute in an interactive setting, where the choices must
be explored in a time-constrained manner. In this work, we present REMIX, the
first system to address the problem of outlier detection in an interactive
setting. REMIX uses a novel mixed integer programming (MIP) formulation for
automatically selecting and executing a diverse set of outlier detectors within
a time limit. This formulation incorporates multiple aspects such as (i) an
upper limit on the total execution time of detectors (ii) diversity in the
space of algorithms and features, and (iii) meta-learning for evaluating the
cost and utility of detectors. REMIX provides two distinct ways for the analyst
to consume its results: (i) a partitioning of the detectors explored by REMIX
into perspectives through low-rank non-negative matrix factorization; each
perspective can be easily visualized as an intuitive heatmap of experiments
versus outliers, and (ii) an ensembled set of outliers which combines outlier
scores from all detectors. We demonstrate the benefits of REMIX through
extensive empirical validation on real-world data.


A Location-Sentiment-Aware Recommender System for Both Home-Town and
  Out-of-Town Users

  Spatial item recommendation has become an important means to help people
discover interesting locations, especially when people pay a visit to
unfamiliar regions. Some current researches are focusing on modelling
individual and collective geographical preferences for spatial item
recommendation based on users' check-in records, but they fail to explore the
phenomenon of user interest drift across geographical regions, i.e., users
would show different interests when they travel to different regions. Besides,
they ignore the influence of public comments for subsequent users' check-in
behaviors. Specifically, it is intuitive that users would refuse to check in to
a spatial item whose historical reviews seem negative overall, even though it
might fit their interests. Therefore, it is necessary to recommend the right
item to the right user at the right location. In this paper, we propose a
latent probabilistic generative model called LSARS to mimic the decision-making
process of users' check-in activities both in home-town and out-of-town
scenarios by adapting to user interest drift and crowd sentiments, which can
learn location-aware and sentiment-aware individual interests from the contents
of spatial items and user reviews. Due to the sparsity of user activities in
out-of-town regions, LSARS is further designed to incorporate the public
preferences learned from local users' check-in behaviors. Finally, we deploy
LSARS into two practical application scenes: spatial item recommendation and
target user discovery. Extensive experiments on two large-scale location-based
social networks (LBSNs) datasets show that LSARS achieves better performance
than existing state-of-the-art methods.


The process of 3D-printed skull models for the anatomy education

  Objective The 3D printed medical models can come from virtual digital
resources, like CT scanning. Nevertheless, the accuracy of CT scanning
technology is limited, which is 1mm. In this situation, the collected data is
not exactly the same as the real structure and there might be some errors
causing the print to fail. This study presents a common and practical way to
process the skull data to make the structures correctly. And then we make a
skull model through 3D printing technology, which is useful for medical
students to understand the complex structure of skull. Materials and Methods
The skull data is collected by the CT scan. To get a corrected medical model,
the computer-assisted image processing goes with the combination of five 3D
manipulation tools: Mimics, 3ds Max, Geomagic, Mudbox and Meshmixer, to
reconstruct the digital model and repair it. Subsequently, we utilize a
low-cost desktop 3D printer, Ultimaker2, with polylactide filament (PLA)
material to print the model and paint it based on the atlas. Result After the
restoration and repairing, we eliminate the errors and repair the model by
adding the missing parts of the uploaded data within 6 hours. Then we print it
and compare the model with the cadaveric skull from frontal, left, right and
anterior views respectively. The printed model can show the same structures and
also the details of the skull clearly and is a good alternative of the
cadaveric skull.


Recruitment Market Trend Analysis with Sequential Latent Variable Models

  Recruitment market analysis provides valuable understanding of
industry-specific economic growth and plays an important role for both
employers and job seekers. With the rapid development of online recruitment
services, massive recruitment data have been accumulated and enable a new
paradigm for recruitment market analysis. However, traditional methods for
recruitment market analysis largely rely on the knowledge of domain experts and
classic statistical models, which are usually too general to model large-scale
dynamic recruitment data, and have difficulties to capture the fine-grained
market trends. To this end, in this paper, we propose a new research paradigm
for recruitment market analysis by leveraging unsupervised learning techniques
for automatically discovering recruitment market trends based on large-scale
recruitment data. Specifically, we develop a novel sequential latent variable
model, named MTLVM, which is designed for capturing the sequential dependencies
of corporate recruitment states and is able to automatically learn the latent
recruitment topics within a Bayesian generative framework. In particular, to
capture the variability of recruitment topics over time, we design hierarchical
dirichlet processes for MTLVM. These processes allow to dynamically generate
the evolving recruitment topics. Finally, we implement a prototype system to
empirically evaluate our approach based on real-world recruitment data in
China. Indeed, by visualizing the results from MTLVM, we can successfully
reveal many interesting findings, such as the popularity of LBS related jobs
reached the peak in the 2nd half of 2014, and decreased in 2015.


Collaborative Company Profiling: Insights from an Employee's Perspective

  Company profiling is an analytical process to build an indepth understanding
of company's fundamental characteristics. It serves as an effective way to gain
vital information of the target company and acquire business intelligence.
Traditional approaches for company profiling rely heavily on the availability
of rich finance information about the company, such as finance reports and SEC
filings, which may not be readily available for many private companies.
However, the rapid prevalence of online employment services enables a new
paradigm - to obtain the variety of company's information from their employees'
online ratings and comments. This, in turn, raises the challenge to develop
company profiles from an employee's perspective. To this end, in this paper, we
propose a method named Company Profiling based Collaborative Topic Regression
(CPCTR), for learning the latent structural patterns of companies. By
formulating a joint optimization framework, CPCTR has the ability in
collaboratively modeling both textual (e.g., reviews) and numerical information
(e.g., salaries and ratings). Indeed, with the identified patterns, including
the positive/negative opinions and the latent variable that influences salary,
we can effectively carry out opinion analysis and salary prediction. Extensive
experiments were conducted on a real-world data set to validate the
effectiveness of CPCTR. The results show that our method provides a
comprehensive understanding of company characteristics and delivers a more
effective prediction of salaries than other baselines.


Measuring the Popularity of Job Skills in Recruitment Market: A
  Multi-Criteria Approach

  To cope with the accelerating pace of technological changes, talents are
urged to add and refresh their skills for staying in active and gainful
employment. This raises a natural question: what are the right skills to learn?
Indeed, it is a nontrivial task to measure the popularity of job skills due to
the diversified criteria of jobs and the complicated connections within job
skills. To that end, in this paper, we propose a data driven approach for
modeling the popularity of job skills based on the analysis of large-scale
recruitment data. Specifically, we first build a job skill network by exploring
a large corpus of job postings. Then, we develop a novel Skill Popularity based
Topic Model (SPTM) for modeling the generation of the skill network. In
particular, SPTM can integrate different criteria of jobs (e.g., salary levels,
company size) as well as the latent connections within skills, thus we can
effectively rank the job skills based on their multi-faceted popularity.
Extensive experiments on real-world recruitment data validate the effectiveness
of SPTM for measuring the popularity of job skills, and also reveal some
interesting rules, such as the popular job skills which lead to high-paid
employment.


Person-Job Fit: Adapting the Right Talent for the Right Job with Joint
  Representation Learning

  Person-Job Fit is the process of matching the right talent for the right job
by identifying talent competencies that are required for the job. While many
qualitative efforts have been made in related fields, it still lacks of
quantitative ways of measuring talent competencies as well as the job's talent
requirements. To this end, in this paper, we propose a novel end-to-end
data-driven model based on Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), namely
Person-Job Fit Neural Network (PJFNN), for matching a talent qualification to
the requirements of a job. To be specific, PJFNN is a bipartite neural network
which can effectively learn the joint representation of Person-Job fitness from
historical job applications. In particular, due to the design of a hierarchical
representation structure, PJFNN can not only estimate whether a candidate fits
a job, but also identify which specific requirement items in the job posting
are satisfied by the candidate by measuring the distances between corresponding
latent representations. Finally, the extensive experiments on a large-scale
real-world dataset clearly validate the performance of PJFNN in terms of
Person-Job Fit prediction. Also, we provide effective data visualization to
show some job and talent benchmark insights obtained by PJFNN.


FineFool: Fine Object Contour Attack via Attention

  Machine learning models have been shown vulnerable to adversarial attacks
launched by adversarial examples which are carefully crafted by attacker to
defeat classifiers. Deep learning models cannot escape the attack either. Most
of adversarial attack methods are focused on success rate or perturbations
size, while we are more interested in the relationship between adversarial
perturbation and the image itself. In this paper, we put forward a novel
adversarial attack based on contour, named FineFool. Finefool not only has
better attack performance compared with other state-of-art white-box attacks in
aspect of higher attack success rate and smaller perturbation, but also capable
of visualization the optimal adversarial perturbation via attention on object
contour. To the best of our knowledge, Finefool is for the first time combines
the critical feature of the original clean image with the optimal perturbations
in a visible manner. Inspired by the correlations between adversarial
perturbations and object contour, slighter perturbations is produced via
focusing on object contour features, which is more imperceptible and difficult
to be defended, especially network add-on defense methods with the trade-off
between perturbations filtering and contour feature loss. Compared with
existing state-of-art attacks, extensive experiments are conducted to show that
Finefool is capable of efficient attack against defensive deep models.


Enhancing Person-Job Fit for Talent Recruitment: An Ability-aware Neural
  Network Approach

  The wide spread use of online recruitment services has led to information
explosion in the job market. As a result, the recruiters have to seek the
intelligent ways for Person Job Fit, which is the bridge for adapting the right
job seekers to the right positions. Existing studies on Person Job Fit have a
focus on measuring the matching degree between the talent qualification and the
job requirements mainly based on the manual inspection of human resource
experts despite of the subjective, incomplete, and inefficient nature of the
human judgement. To this end, in this paper, we propose a novel end to end
Ability aware Person Job Fit Neural Network model, which has a goal of reducing
the dependence on manual labour and can provide better interpretation about the
fitting results. The key idea is to exploit the rich information available at
abundant historical job application data. Specifically, we propose a word level
semantic representation for both job requirements and job seekers' experiences
based on Recurrent Neural Network. Along this line, four hierarchical ability
aware attention strategies are designed to measure the different importance of
job requirements for semantic representation, as well as measuring the
different contribution of each job experience to a specific ability
requirement. Finally, extensive experiments on a large scale real world data
set clearly validate the effectiveness and interpretability of the APJFNN
framework compared with several baselines.


