Multipartite separability of density matrices of graphs

  A new layers method is presented for multipartite separability of density
matrices from simple graphs. Full separability of tripartite states is studied
for graphs on degree symmetric premise. The models are generalized to
multipartite systems by presenting a class of fully separable states arising
from partially symmetric graphs.


Characterization of four-qubit states via Bell inequalities

  A set of Bell inequalities classifying the quantum entanglement of four-qubit
states is presented. These inequalities involve only two measurement settings
per observer and can characterize fully separable, bi-separable and
tri-separable quantum states. In addition, a quadratic inequality of the Bell
operators for four-qubit systems is derived.


Coherence Length of Excitons in a Semiconductor Quantum Well

  We report on the first experimental determination of the coherence length of
excitons in semiconductors using the combination of spatially resolved
photoluminescence with phonon sideband spectroscopy. The coherence length of
excitons in ZnSe quantum wells is determined to be 300 ~ 400 nm, about 25 ~ 30
times the exciton de Broglie wavelength. With increasing exciton kinetic
energy, the coherence length decreases slowly. The discrepancy between the
coherence lengths measured and calculated by only considering the acoustic
phonon scattering suggests an important influence of static disorder.


Solid immersion lens-enhanced micro-photoluminescence: principle and
  applications

  We demonstrate the combination of a hemispherical solid immersion lens with a
micro-photoluminescence setup. Two advantages introduced by the SIL, an
improved resolution of 0.4 times the wavelength in vacuum and a 5 times
enhancement of the collection efficiency, make it an ideal system for spatially
resolved spectroscopy applications. The influence of the air gap between the
SIL and the sample surface is investigated in detail. We confirm the tolerance
of the set--up to an air gap of several micrometers. Such a system is proven to
be ideal system in the studies of exciton transport and polarization dependent
single quantum dot spectroscopy.


Temperature dependence of ambipolar diffusion in silicon-on-insulator

  Spatiotemporal dynamics of electron-hole pairs locally excited in a
silicon-on-insulator structure by indirect interband absorption are studied by
measuring differential transmission caused by free-carrier absorption of a
probe pulse tuned below the bandgap, with 200-fs temporal and 3-micrometer
spatial resolution. From sample temperatures of 250 K to 400 K, the ambipolar
diffusivity decreases, and is similar to reported values of bulk silicon.
Cooling the sample from 250 K to 90 K, a decrease of ambipolar diffusivity is
observed, indicating important influences of defects and residual stress on
carrier diffusion. No detectable density dependence of ambipolar diffusivity is
observed.


All-optical generation and detection of sub-picosecond ac spin current
  pulses in GaAs

  Sub-picosecond ac spin current pulses are generated optically in GaAs bulk
and quantum wells at room temperature and 90K through quantum interference
between one-photon and two-photon absorptions driven by two phase-locked
ultrafast laser pulses that are both circularly polarized. The dynamics of the
current pulses are detected optically by monitoring in real time and real space
nanoscale motion of electrons with high-resolution pump-probe techniques.


Exceptional and Anisotropic Transport Properties of Photocarriers in
  Black Phosphorus

  We show that black phosphorus has room-temperature charge mobilities on the
order of 10$^4$ cm$^2$V$^{-1}$s$^{-1}$, which are about one order of magnitude
larger than silicon. We also demonstrate strong anisotropic transport in black
phosphorus, where the mobilities along the armchair direction are about one
order of magnitude larger than zigzag direction. A photocarrier lifetime as
long as 100 ps is also determined. These results illustrate that black
phosphorus is a promising candidate for future electronic and optoelectronic
applications.


Diagnostics for Variational Bayes approximations

  Variational Bayes (VB) has shown itself to be a powerful approximation method
in many application areas. This paper describes some diagnostics methods which
can assess how well the VB approximates the true posterior, particularly with
regards to its covariance structure. The methods proposed also allow us to
generate simple corrections when the approximation error is large. It looks at
joint, marginal and conditional aspects of the approximate posterior and shows
how to apply these techniques in both simulated and real data examples.


Variational Bayes inference and Dirichlet process priors

  This paper shows how the variational Bayes method provides a computational
efficient technique in the context of hierarchical modelling using Dirichlet
process priors, in particular without requiring conjugate prior assumption. It
shows, using the so called parameter separation parameterization, a simple
criterion under which the variational method works well. Based on this
framework, its provides a full variational solution for the Dirichlet process.
The numerical results show that the method is very computationally efficient
when compared to MCMC. Finally, we propose an empirical method to estimate the
truncation level for the truncated Dirichlet process.


Bound entanglement and distillability of multipartite quantum systems

  We construct a class of entangled states in
$\mathcal{H}=\mathcal{H}_{A}\otimes\mathcal{H}_{B}\otimes\mathcal{H}_{C}$
quantum systems with
$dim\mathcal{H}_{A}=dim\mathcal{H}_{B}=dim\mathcal{H}_{C}=2$ and classify those
states with respect to their distillability properties. The states are bound
entanglement for the bipartite split$(AB)-C$. The states are NPT entanglement
and $1$-copy undistillable for the bipartite splits $A-(BC)$ and $B-(AC)$.
Moreover, we generalize the results of $2\otimes2\otimes2$ systems to the case
of $2n\otimes 2n\otimes2n$ systems.


Unextendible maximally entangled bases and mutually unbiased bases in
  multipartite systems

  We generalize the notion of unextendible maximally entangled basis from
bipartite systems to multipartite quantum systems. It is proved that there do
not exist unextendible maximally entangled bases in three-qubit systems.
Moreover,two types of unextendible maximally entangled bases are constructed in
tripartite quantum systems and proved to be not mutually unbiased.


Conformal Mesh Parameterization Using Discrete Calabi Flow

  In this paper, we introduce discrete Calabi flow to the graphics research
community and present a novel conformal mesh parameterization algorithm. Calabi
energy has a succinct and explicit format. Its corresponding flow is conformal
and convergent under certain conditions. Our method is based on the Calabi
energy and Calabi flow with solid theoretical and mathematical base. We
demonstrate our approach on dozens of models and compare it with other related
flow based methods, such as the well-known Ricci flow and CETM. Our experiments
show that the performance of our algorithm is comparably the same with other
methods. The discrete Calabi flow in our method provides another perspective on
conformal flow and conformal parameterization.


Ergodic Capacity Under Power Adaption Over Fisher-Snedecor F Fading
  Channels

  In this letter, we consider a communication scenario, where the transmitter
adopts different power adaption methods according to the instantaneous channel
state to enhance the ergodic capacity (EC) over Fisher-Snedecor F fading
channels. We derive closed-form expressions for the EC under different power
adaption methods, as well as the corresponding asymptotic EC formulas to get
some insights in the high signal-to-noise ratio region. In the numerical
results section, we compare the performance of different adaptive power
transmission strategies, and demonstrate the accuracy of our derived
expressions.


Thermodynamics and critical behaviors of topological dS black holes with
  nonlinear source

  We discuss black hole solutions of Einstein gravity in presence of nonlinear
electrodynamics in dS spacetime. Considering prescribed entropy, thermodynamic
volume of dS spacetime, We investigate properties of the effective
thermodynamic quantities under influence of nonlinearity parameter $\alpha$.
They show a similar phase transition and criticality properties with that of
black holes in AdS spacetime. And the nonlinearity parameter $\alpha$ combined
with electric charge is found to have effects on the phase structure. By the
Ehrenfest equations we prove the critical phase transition is a second order
equilibrium transition.


Averaging principle for one dimensional stochastic Burgers equation

  In this paper, we consider the averaging principle for one dimensional
stochastic Burgers equation with slow and fast time-scales. Under some suitable
conditions, we show that the slow component strongly converges to the solution
of the corresponding averaged equation. Meanwhile, when there is no noise in
the slow component equation, we also prove that the slow component weakly
converges to the solution of the corresponding averaged equation with the order
of convergence $1-r$, for any $0<r<1$.


Nonreciprocal photon blockade via quadratic optomechanical coupling

  We propose to manipulate the statistic properties of the photons transport
nonreciprocally via quadratic optomechanical coupling. We present a scheme to
generate quadratic optomechanical interactions in the normal optical modes of a
whispering-gallery-mode (WGM) optomechanical system by eliminating the linear
optomechanical couplings via anticrossing of different modes. By optically
pumping the WGM optomechanical system in one direction, the effective quadratic
optomechanical coupling in that direction will be enhanced significantly, and
nonreciprocal photon blockade will be observed consequently. Our proposal has
potential applications for the on-chip nonreciprocal single-photon devices.


A Note on Entanglement of Formation and Generalized Concurrence

  We discuss a kind of generalized concurrence for a class of high dimensional
quantum pure states such that the entanglement of formation is a monotonically
increasing convex function of the generalized concurrence. An analytical
expression of the entanglement of formation for a class of high dimensional
quantum mixed states is obtained.


A Report on Shape Deformation with a Stretching and Bending Energy

  In this report we describe a mesh editing system that we implemented that
uses a natural stretching and bending energy defined over smooth surfaces. As
such, this energy behaves uniformly under various mesh resolutions. All of the
elements of our approach already exist in the literature. We hope that our
discussions of these energies helps to shed light on the behaviors of these
methods and provides a unified discussion of these methods.


Nanotwin-Dominant Superstructures Selectively Grown on Anatase {001}
  Facets

  homo/heterojunction renders fascinating electronic, optical, mechanical,
chemical properties, yet a facile synthesis of this structure remains a
challenge.


Shot Noise for Entangled Electrons with Berry Phase

  We study shot noise for entangled electrons in a 4-lead beam-splitter with
one incoming lead driven by adiabatically rotating magnetic fields. We propose
a setup of an adiabatically rotating magnetic field therefor, which is
appropriate for an electron beam to transport through. Using the scattering
matrix approach, we find that shot noise for the singlet and that for the
entangled triplet oscillates between bunching and antibunching due to the
influence of the Berry phase. It provides us a new approach for testing the
Berry phase in electron transport on the basis of entanglement.


Implement Quantum Random Walks with Linear Optics Elements

  The quantum random walk has drawn special interests because its remarkable
features to the classical counterpart could lead to new quantum algorithms. In
this paper, we propose a feasible scheme to implement quantum random walks on a
line using only linear optics elements. With current single-photon interference
technology, the steps that could be experimentally implemented can be extended
to very large numbers. We also show that, by decohering the quantum states, our
scheme for quantum random walk tends to be classical.


Energy relaxation during hot-exciton transport in quantum wells: Direct
  observation by spatially resolved phonon-sideband spectroscopy

  We investigate the energy relaxation of excitons during the real-space
transport in ZnSe quantum wells by using microphotoluminescence with spatial
resolution enhanced by a solid immersion lens. The spatial evolution of the
LO-phonon sideband, originating from the LO-phonon assisted recombination of
hot excitons, is measured directly. By calculating the LO-phonon assisted
recombination probability, we obtain the nonthermal energy distribution of
excitons and observe directly the energy relaxation of hot excitons during
their transport. We find the excitons remain hot during their transport on a
length scale of several micrometers. Thus, the excitonic transport on this
scale cannot be described by classical diffusion.


Effect of quantum confinement on exciton-phonon interactions

  We investigate the homogeneous linewidth of localized type-I excitons in
type-II GaAs/AlAs superlattices. These localizing centers represent the
intermediate case between quasi-two-dimensional (Q2D) and
quasi-zero-dimensional localizations. The temperature dependence of the
homogeneous linewidth is obtained with high precision from
micro-photoluminescence spectra. We confirm the reduced interaction of the
excitons with their environment with decreasing dimensionality except for the
coupling to LO-phonons. The low-temperature limit for the linewidth of these
localized excitons is five times smaller than that of Q2D excitons. The
coefficient of exciton-acoustic-phonon interaction is 5 ~ 6 times smaller than
that of Q2D excitons. An enhancement of the average exciton-LO-phonon
interaction by localization is found in our sample. But this interaction is
very sensitive to the detailed structure of the localizing centers.


Spatio-temporal dynamics of quantum-well excitons

  We investigate the lateral transport of excitons in ZnSe quantum wells by
using time-resolved micro-photoluminescence enhanced by the introduction of a
solid immersion lens. The spatial and temporal resolutions are 200 nm and 5 ps,
respectively. Strong deviation from classical diffusion is observed up to 400
ps. This feature is attributed to the hot-exciton effects, consistent with
previous experiments under cw excitation. The coupled transport-relaxation
process of hot excitons is modelled by Monte Carlo simulation. We prove that
two basic assumptions typically accepted in photoluminescence investigations on
excitonic transport, namely (i) the classical diffusion model as well as (ii)
the equivalence between the temporal and spatial evolution of the exciton
population and of the measured photoluminescence, are not valid for
low-temperature experiments.


Hot exciton transport in ZnSe quantum wells

  The in-plane transport of excitons in ZnSe quantum wells is investigated
directly by microphotoluminescence in combination with a solid immersion lens.
Due to the strong Froehlich coupling, the initial kinetic energy of the
excitons is well controlled by choosing the excess energy of the excitation
laser. When increasing the laser excess energy, we find a general trend of
increasing transport length and more importantly a pronounced periodic
quenching of the transport length when the excess energy corresponds to
multiples of the LO-phonon energy. Such features show the dominant role of the
kinetic energy of excitons in the transport process. Together with the
excitation intensity dependence of the transport length, we distinguish the
phonon wind driven transport of cold excitons and defect-limited hot exciton
transport.


Ambipolar spin diffusion and D'yakonov-Perel' spin relaxation in GaAs
  quantum wells

  We report theoretical and experimental studies of ambipolar spin diffusion in
a semiconductor. A circularly polarized laser pulse is used to excite
spin-polarized carriers in a GaAs multiple quantum well sample at 80 K.
Diffusion of electron and spin densities is simultaneously measured using a
spatially and temporally resolved pump-probe technique. Two regimes of
diffusion for spin-polarized electrons are observed. Initially, the rate of
spin diffusion is similar to that of density diffusion and is controlled by the
ambipolar diffusion coefficient. At later times, the spin diffusion slows down
considerably relative to the density diffusion and appears to be controlled by
a non-constant (decreasing) spin diffusion coefficient. We suggest that the
long-time behavior of the spin density can be understood in terms of an
inhomogeneous spin relaxation rate, which grows with decreasing density. The
behavior of the spin relaxation rate is consistent with a model of
D'yakonov-Perel' relaxation limited by the Coulomb scattering between carriers.


Hot carrier diffusion in graphene

  We report an optical study of charge transport in graphene. Diffusion of hot
carriers in epitaxial graphene and reduced graphene oxide samples are studied
using an ultrafast pump-probe technique with a high spatial resolution.
Spatiotemporal dynamics of hot carriers after a point-like excitation are
monitored. Carrier diffusion coefficients of 11,000 and 5,500 squared
centimeters per second are measured in epitaxial graphene and reduced graphene
oxide samples, respectively, with a carrier temperature on the order of 3,600
K. The demonstrated optical techniques can be used for non-contact and
non-invasive in-situ detection of transport properties of graphene.


Ambipolar diffusion of photo-excited carriers in bulk GaAs

  The ambipolar carrier diffusion in bulk GaAs is studied by using an ultrafast
pump-probe technique with a high spatial resolution. Carriers with a point-like
spatial profile are excited by a tightly focused pump laser pulse. The
spatiotemporal dynamics of the carriers are monitored by a time-delayed and
spatially scanned probe pulse. Ambipolar diffusion coefficients are deduced
from linear fits to the expansion of the area of the profiles, and are found to
decrease from about 170~$\mathrm{cm}^2 \mathrm{s}^{-1}$ at 10 K to about
20~$\mathrm{cm}^2 \mathrm{s}^{-1}$ at room temperature. Our results are
consistent with those deduced from the previously measured mobilities.


Observation of intrinsic inverse spin Hall effect

  We report observation of intrinsic inverse spin Hall effect in un-doped GaAs
multiple quantum wells with a sample temperature of 10 K. A transient ballistic
pure spin current is injected by a pair of laser pulses through quantum
interference. By time-resolving the dynamics of the pure spin current, the
momentum relaxation time is deduced, which sets the lower limit of the
scattering time between electrons and holes. The transverse charge current
generated by the pure spin current via the inverse spin Hall effect is
simultaneously resolved. We find that the charge current is generated well
before the first electron-hole scattering event. Generation of the transverse
current in the scattering-free ballistic transport regime provides unambiguous
evidence for the intrinsic inverse spin Hall effect.


Two-probe study of hot carriers in reduced graphene oxide

  The energy relaxation of carriers in reduced graphene oxide thin films is
studied using optical pump-probe spectroscopy with two probes of different
colors. We measure the time difference between peaks of the carrier density at
each probing energy by measuring a time-resolved differential transmission and
find that the carrier density at the lower probing energy peaks later than that
at the higher probing energy. Also, we find that the peak time for the lower
probing energy shifts from about 92 to 37 fs after the higher probing energy
peak as the carrier density is increased from 1.5E12 to 3E13 per square
centimeter, while no noticeable shift is observed in that for the higher
probing energy. Assuming the carriers rapidly thermalize after excitation, this
indicates that the optical phonon emission time decreases from about 50 to
about 20 fs and the energy relaxation rate increases from 4 to 10 meV/fs. The
observed density dependence is inconsistent with the phonon bottleneck effect.


Spatially resolved femtosecond pump-probe study of topological insulator
  Bi2Se3

  Carrier and phonon dynamics in Bi2Se3 crystals are studied by a spatially
resolved ultrafast pump-probe technique. Pronounced oscillations in
differential reflection are observed with two distinct frequencies, and are
attributed to coherent optical and acoustic phonons, respectively. The rising
time of the signal indicates that the thermalization and energy relaxation of
hot carriers are both sub-ps in this material. We found that the thermalization
and relaxation time decreases with the carrier density. The expansion of the
differential reflection profile allows us to estimate an ambipolar carrier
diffusion coefficient on the order of 500 square centimeters per second. A
long-term slow expansion of the profile shows a thermal diffusion coefficient
of 1.2 square centimeters per second.


Exciton diffusion in semiconducting single-wall carbon nanotubes studied
  by transient absorption microscopy

  Spatiotemporal dynamics of excitons in isolated semiconducting single-walled
carbon nanotubes are studied using transient absorption microscopy.
Differential reflection and transmission of an 810-nm probe pulse after
excitation by a 750-nm pump pulse are measured. We observe a bi-exponentially
decaying signal with a fast time constant of 0.66 ps and a slower time constant
of 2.8 ps. Both constants are independent of the pump fluence. By spatially and
temporally resolving the differential reflection, we are able to observe a
diffusion of excitons, and measure a diffusion coefficient of 200 cm2/s at room
temperature and 300 cm2/s at lower temperatures of 10 K and 150 K.


Second harmonic microscopy of monolayer MoS2

  We show that the lack of inversion symmetry in monolayer MoS2 allows strong
optical second harmonic generation. Second harmonic of an 810-nm pulse is
generated in a mechanically exfoliated monolayer, with a nonlinear
susceptibility on the order of 1E-7 m/V. The susceptibility reduces by a factor
of seven in trilayers, and by about two orders of magnitude in even layers. A
proof-of-principle second harmonic microscopy measurement is performed on
samples grown by chemical vapor deposition, which illustrates potential
applications of this effect in fast and non-invasive detection of crystalline
orientation, thickness uniformity, layer stacking, and single-crystal domain
size of atomically thin films of MoS2 and similar materials.


Charge carrier dynamics in bulk MoS2 crystal studied by transient
  absorption microscopy

  We report a transient absorption microscopy study of charge carrier dynamics
in bulk MoS2 crystals at room temperature. Charge carriers are injected by
interband absorption of a 555-nm pulse, and probed by measuring differential
reflection of a time-delayed and spatially scanned 660-nm pulse. We find an
intervalley transfer time of about 0.35 ps, an energy relaxation time of hot
carriers on the order of 50 ps, and a carrier lifetime of 180 ps. By monitoring
the spatiotemporal dynamics of carriers, we obtained a diffusion coefficient of
thermalized electrons of 4.2 cm2/s, corresponding to a mobility of 170 cm2/Vs.
We also observed a time-varying diffusion coefficient of hot carriers.


Femtosecond Pump-Probe Studies of Reduced Graphene Oxide Thin Films

  The dynamics of photocarriers in reduced graphene oxide thin films is studied
by using ultrafast pump-probe spectroscopy. Time dependent differential
transmissions are measured with sample temperatures ranging from 9 to 300 K. At
each sample temperature and probe delay, the sign of differential transmission
remains positive. A fast energy relaxation of hot carriers is observed, and is
found to be independent of sample temperature. Our experiments show that the
carrier dynamics in reduced graphene oxide is similar to other types of
graphene, and that the differential transmission is caused by phase-state
filling of carriers.


Power dependence of pure spin current injection by quantum interference

  We investigate the power dependence of pure spin current injection in GaAs
bulk and quantum-well samples by a quantum interference and control technique.
Spin separation is measured as a function of the relative strength of the two
transition pathways driven by two laser pulses. By keeping the relaxation time
of the current unchanged, we are able to relate the spin separation to the
injected average velocity. We find that the average velocity is determined by
the relative strength of the two transitions in the same way as in classical
interference. Based on this, we conclude that the density of injected pure spin
current increases monotonically with the excitation laser intensities. The
experimental results are consistent with theoretical calculations based on
Fermi's golden rule.


Optical pump-probe studies of carrier dynamics in few-layer MoS2

  Femtosecond optical pump-probe technique is used to study charge carrier
dynamics in few-layer MoS2 samples fabricated by mechanical exfoliation. An
ultrafast pump pulse excites carriers and differential reflection of a probe
pulse tuned to an excitonic resonance is detected. We find that the spectrum of
the differential reflection signal is similar to the derivative of the
resonance. The decay time of the signal is in the range of 150 to 400 ps,
increasing with the probe wavelength. With a fixed probe wavelength, the signal
magnitude is proportional to the pump fluence, while the decay time is
independent of it.


Third harmonic generation in graphene and few-layer graphite films

  We observe optical third harmonic generation from graphene and few-layer
graphite flakes produced by exfoliation. The emission scales with the cube of
the intensity of the incident near-infrared femtosecond pulses and has a
wavelength that is one-third of the incident wavelength, both consistent with
third harmonic generation. We extract an effective third-order susceptibility
for graphene that is on the order of 1e-16 square meter per square volt, which
is comparable to that for materials that are resonantly excited, but larger
than for materials that are transparent at the fundamental and third harmonic
wavelengths. By measuring a set of flakes with different numbers of atomic
layers, we find that the emission scales with the square of the number of
atomic layers, which suggests that the susceptibility of graphene is
independent of layer number, at least for a few layers.


Exciton-exciton annihilation in MoSe2 monolayers

  We investigate the excitonic dynamics in MoSe2 monolayer and bulk samples by
femtosecond transient absorption microscopy. Excitons are resonantly injected
by a 750-nm and 100-fs laser pulse, and are detected by a probe pulse tuned in
the range of 790 - 820 nm. We observe a strong density-dependent initial decay
of the exciton population in monolayers, which can be well described by the
exciton-exciton annihilation. Such a feature is not observed in the bulk under
comparable conditions. We also observe the saturated absorption induced by
exciton phase-space filling in both monolayers and the bulk, which indicates
their potential applications as saturable absorbers.


Construction of Bound Entangled States Based on Permutation Operators

  We present a construction of new bound entangled states from given bound
entangled states for arbitrary dimensional bipartite systems. One way to
construct bound entangled states is to show that these states are PPT (positive
partial transpose) and violate the range criterion at the same time. By
applying certain operators to given bound entangled states or to one of the
subsystems of the given bound entangled states, we obtain a set of new states
which are both PPT and violate the range criterion. We show that the derived
bound entangled states are not local unitary equivalent to the original bound
entangled states by detail examples.


Spatially resolved pump-probe study of single-layer graphene produced by
  chemical vapor deposition

  Carrier dynamics in single-layer graphene grown by chemical vapor deposition
(CVD) is studied using spatially and temporally resolved pump-probe
spectroscopy by measuring both differential transmission and differential
reflection. By studying the expansion of a Gaussian spatial profile of carriers
excited by a 1500-nm pump pulse with a 1761-nm probe pulse, we observe a
diffusion of hot carriers of 5500 square centimeter per second. We also observe
that the expansion of the carrier density profile decreases to a slow rate
within 1 ps, which is unexpected. Furthermore, by using an 810-nm probe pulse
we observe that both the differential transmission and reflection change signs,
but also that this sign change can be permanently removed by exposure of the
graphene to femtosecond laser pulses of relatively high fluence. This indicates
that the differential transmission and reflection at later times may not be
directly caused by carriers, but may be from some residue material from the
sample fabrication or transfer process.


Ultrafast and spatially resolved studies of charge carriers in
  atomically-thin molybdenum disulfide

  Atomically-thin molybdenum disulfide is emerging as a new nanomaterial with
potential applications in the fields of electronic and photonics. Charge
carrier dynamics plays an essential role in determining its electronic and
optical properties. We report spatially and temporally resolved pump-probe
studies of charge carriers in atomically-thin molybdenum disulfide samples
fabricated by mechanical exfoliation. Carriers are injected by interband
absorption of a 390-nm pump pulse and detected by measuring differential
reflection of a time-delayed and spatially-scanned probe pulse that is tuned to
an exciton transition. Several parameters on charge carrier dynamics are
deduced, including carrier lifetime, diffusion coefficient, diffusion length,
and mobility.


Second-harmonic generation induced by electric currents in GaAs

  We demonstrate a new, nonlinear optical effect of electric currents. First, a
steady current is generated by applying a voltage on a doped GaAs crystal. We
demonstrate that this current induces second-harmonic generation of a probe
laser pulse. Second, we optically inject a transient current in an undoped GaAs
crystal by using a pair of ultrafast laser pulses, and demonstrate that it
induces the same second-harmonic generation. In both cases, the induced
second-order nonlinear susceptibility is proportional to the current density.
This effect can be used for nondestructive, noninvasive, and ultrafast imaging
of currents. These advantages are illustrated by the real-time observations of
a coherent plasma oscillation and spatial resolution of current distribution in
a device. This new effect also provides a mechanism for electrical control of
the optical response of materials.


Robust Edge-Preserved Surface Mesh Polycube Deformation

  The problem of polycube construction or deformation is an essential problem
in computer graphics. In this paper, we present a robust, simple, efficient and
automatic algorithm to deform the meshes of arbitrary shapes into their
polycube ones. We derive a clear relationship between a mesh and its
corresponding polycube shape. Our algorithm is edge-preserved, and works on
surface meshes with or without boundaries. Our algorithm outperforms previous
ones in speed, robustness, efficiency. Our method is simple to implement. To
demonstrate the robustness and effectiveness of our method, we apply it to
hundreds of models of varying complexity and topology. We demonstrat that our
method compares favorably to other state-of-the-art polycube deformation
methods.


The Normal Map Based on Area-Preserving Parameterization

  In this paper, we present an approach to enhance and improve the current
normal map rendering technique. Our algorithm is based on semi-discrete Optimal
Mass Transportation (OMT) theory and has a solid theoretical base. The key
difference from previous normal map method is that we preserve the local area
when we unwrap a disk-like 3D surface onto 2D plane. Compared to the currently
used techniques which is based on conformal parameterization, our method does
not need to cut a surface into many small pieces to avoid the large area
distortion. The following charts packing step is also unnecessary in our
framework. Our method is practical and makes the normal map technique more
robust and efficient.


Different Power Adaption Methods on Fluctuating Two-Ray Fading Channels

  In this letter, we consider a typical scenario where the transmitter employs
different power adaption methods, including the optimal rate and power
algorithm, optimal rate adaption, channel inversion and truncated channel
inversion, to enhance the ergodic capacity (EC) with an average transmit power
constraint over fluctuating two-way fading channels. In particular, we derive
exact closed-form expressions for the EC under different power adaption
methods, as well as corresponding asymptotic formulas for the EC valid in the
high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) region. Finally, we compare the performance of
the EC under different power adaption methods, and this also validates the
accuracy of our derived expressions for the exact and asymptotic EC.


Correlations of spin-polarized and entangled electrons with Berry phase

  The correlation and fluctuation of both entangled electrons and
spin-polarized pairs affected by two rotating magnetic fields in a setup
proposed by J. Carlos Egues etc. (Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 89}(2002) 176401) are
studied theoretically by using scattering approach. Differing from polarized
pair, the entangled electron pairs are shown to behave like a composite
particle with the total spins and its $z$ components. The singlet and triplet
states exhibit different bunching and antibunching features, which can be
easily adjusted by the magnetic fields. The correlations and variances can show
up distinguish output signals for the four incident states. Our results are
expected to be tested by using coincident technique.


Phase Transition and Clapeyon Equation of Black Hole in Higher
  Dimensional AdS Spacetime

  By Maxwell equal area law we study the phase transition in higher dimensional
Anti-de Sitter (AdS) Reissner-Nordstr\"{o}m (RN) black hole and Kerr black hole
in this paper. The coexisting region of the two phases involved in the phase
transition is found and the coexisting curves are shown in $P-T$ figures. We
also analytically investigate the parameters which affect the coexisting
curves. To better compare with ordinary thermodynamic systems, the Clapeyon
equation is derived for higher dimensional AdS black holes. This paper can help
to deepen the understanding of the phase transition and phase structure of AdS
black holes.


Two-phase equilibrium properties in charged topological dilaton AdS
  black holes

  In this paper we discuss phase transition of the charged topological dilaton
AdS black holes by Maxwell equal area law. The two phases involved in the phase
transition could be coexist and we depict the coexistence region in $P-v$
diagrams. The two-phase equilibrium curves in $P-T$ diagrams are plotted, the
Clapeyron equation for the black hole is derived, and the latent heat of
isothermal phase transition is investigated. We also analyze of the parameters
of the black hole that have an effect on the two phases coexistence. The
results show that the black hole may go through a small-large phase transition
similar to those of usual non-gravity thermodynamic systems.


Ghost imaging lidar via sparsity constraints

  For remote sensing, high-resolution imaging techniques are helpful to catch
more characteristic information of the target. We extend pseudo-thermal light
ghost imaging to the area of remote imaging and propose a ghost imaging lidar
system. For the first time, we demonstrate experimentally that the real-space
image of a target at about 1.0 km range with 20 mm resolution is achieved by
ghost imaging via sparsity constraints (GISC) technique. The characters of GISC
technique compared to the existing lidar systems are also discussed.


