Universal power law governing pedestrian interactions

  Human crowds often bear a striking resemblance to interacting particle
systems, and this has prompted many researchers to describe pedestrian dynamics
in terms of interaction forces and potential energies. The correct quantitative
form of this interaction, however, has remained an open question. Here, we
introduce a novel statistical-mechanical approach to directly measure the
interaction energy between pedestrians. This analysis, when applied to a large
collection of human motion data, reveals a simple power law interaction that is
based not on the physical separation between pedestrians but on their projected
time to a potential future collision, and is therefore fundamentally
anticipatory in nature. Remarkably, this simple law is able to describe human
interactions across a wide variety of situations, speeds and densities. We
further show, through simulations, that the interaction law we identify is
sufficient to reproduce many known crowd phenomena.


ALAN: Adaptive Learning for Multi-Agent Navigation

  In multi-agent navigation, agents need to move towards their goal locations
while avoiding collisions with other agents and static obstacles, often without
communication with each other. Existing methods compute motions that are
optimal locally but do not account for the aggregated motions of all agents,
producing inefficient global behavior especially when agents move in a crowded
space. In this work, we develop methods to allow agents to dynamically adapt
their behavior to their local conditions. We accomplish this by formulating the
multi-agent navigation problem as an action-selection problem, and propose an
approach, ALAN, that allows agents to compute time-efficient and collision-free
motions. ALAN is highly scalable because each agent makes its own decisions on
how to move using a set of velocities optimized for a variety of navigation
tasks. Experimental results show that the agents using ALAN, in general, reach
their destinations faster than using ORCA, a state-of-the-art collision
avoidance framework, the Social Forces model for pedestrian navigation, and a
Predictive collision avoidance model.


