Cliques in complex networks reveal link formation and community
  evolution

  Missing link prediction in indirected and un-weighted network is an open and
challenge problem which has been studied intensively in recent years. In this
paper, we studied the relationships between community structure and link
formation and proposed a Fast Block probabilistic Model(FBM). In accordance
with the experiments on four real world networks, we have yielded very good
accuracy of missing link prediction and huge improvement in computing
efficiency compared to conventional methods. By analyzing the mechanism of link
formation, we also discovered that clique structure plays a significant role to
help us understand how links grow in communities. Therefore, we summarized
three principles which are proved to be able to well explain the mechanism of
link formation and network evolution from the theory of graph topology.


Cross-Language Domain Adaptation for Classifying Crisis-Related Short
  Messages

  Rapid crisis response requires real-time analysis of messages. After a
disaster happens, volunteers attempt to classify tweets to determine needs,
e.g., supplies, infrastructure damage, etc. Given labeled data, supervised
machine learning can help classify these messages. Scarcity of labeled data
causes poor performance in machine training. Can we reuse old tweets to train
classifiers? How can we choose labeled tweets for training? Specifically, we
study the usefulness of labeled data of past events. Do labeled tweets in
different language help? We observe the performance of our classifiers trained
using different combinations of training sets obtained from past disasters. We
perform extensive experimentation on real crisis datasets and show that the
past labels are useful when both source and target events are of the same type
(e.g. both earthquakes). For similar languages (e.g., Italian and Spanish),
cross-language domain adaptation was useful, however, when for different
languages (e.g., Italian and English), the performance decreased.


Understanding Co-evolution in Large Multi-relational Social Networks

  Understanding dynamics of evolution in large social networks is an important
problem. In this paper, we characterize evolution in large multi-relational
social networks. The proliferation of online media such as Twitter, Facebook,
Orkut and MMORPGs\footnote{Massively Multi-player Online Role Playing Games}
have created social networking data at an unprecedented scale. Sony's Everquest
2 is one such example. We used game multi-relational networks to reveal the
dynamics of evolution in a multi-relational setting by macroscopic study of the
game network. Macroscopic analysis involves fragmenting the network into
smaller portions for studying the dynamics within these sub-networks, referred
to as `communities'. From an evolutionary perspective of multi-relational
network analysis, we have made the following contributions. Specifically, we
formulated and analyzed various metrics to capture evolutionary properties of
networks. We find that co-evolution rates in trust based `communities' are
approximately $60\%$ higher than the trade based `communities'. We also find
that the trust and trade connections within the `communities' reduce as their
size increases. Finally, we study the interrelation between the dynamics of
trade and trust within `communities' and find interesting results about the
precursor relationship between the trade and the trust dynamics within the
`communities'.


Visualization of Wearable Data and Biometrics for Analysis and
  Recommendations in Childhood Obesity

  Obesity is one of the major health risk factors be- hind the rise of
non-communicable conditions. Understanding the factors influencing obesity is
very complex since there are many variables that can affect the health
behaviors leading to it. Nowadays, multiple data sources can be used to study
health behaviors, such as wearable sensors for physical activity and sleep,
social media, mobile and health data. In this paper we describe the design of a
dashboard for the visualization of actigraphy and biometric data from a
childhood obesity camp in Qatar. This dashboard allows quantitative discoveries
that can be used to guide patient behavior and orient qualitative research.


Impact of News Organizations' Trustworthiness and Social Media Activity
  on Audience Engagement

  News organizations are increasingly using social media to reach out to their
audience aimed at raising their attention and engagement with news. Given the
continuous decrease in subscription rates and audience trust in news media, it
is imperative for news organizations to understand factors contributing to
their relationships with the audience. Using Twitter data of 315 U.S. newspaper
organizations and their audiences, this study uses multiple regression analysis
to examine the influence of key news organization characteristics on audience
engagement with news: (1) trustworthiness computed by the Trust Scores in
Social Media (TSM) algorithm; (2) quantity of tweets; and (3) skillfulness of
Twitter use. The results show significant influence of a news organizations'
trustworthiness and level of Twitter activity on its audiences' news
engagement. Methods to measure trustworthiness of news organizations and
audience news engagement, as well as scalable algorithms to compute them from
large-scale datasets, are also proposed.


Adversarial Unsupervised Representation Learning for Activity
  Time-Series

  Sufficient physical activity and restful sleep play a major role in the
prevention and cure of many chronic conditions. Being able to proactively
screen and monitor such chronic conditions would be a big step forward for
overall health. The rapid increase in the popularity of wearable devices
provides a significant new source, making it possible to track the user's
lifestyle real-time. In this paper, we propose a novel unsupervised
representation learning technique called activity2vec that learns and
"summarizes" the discrete-valued activity time-series. It learns the
representations with three components: (i) the co-occurrence and magnitude of
the activity levels in a time-segment, (ii) neighboring context of the
time-segment, and (iii) promoting subject-invariance with adversarial training.
We evaluate our method on four disorder prediction tasks using linear
classifiers. Empirical evaluation demonstrates that our proposed method scales
and performs better than many strong baselines. The adversarial regime helps
improve the generalizability of our representations by promoting subject
invariant features. We also show that using the representations at the level of
a day works the best since human activity is structured in terms of daily
routines


Predicting Multi-actor collaborations using Hypergraphs

  Social networks are now ubiquitous and most of them contain interactions
involving multiple actors (groups) like author collaborations, teams or emails
in an organizations, etc. Hypergraphs are natural structures to effectively
capture multi-actor interactions which conventional dyadic graphs fail to
capture. In this work the problem of predicting collaborations is addressed
while modeling the collaboration network as a hypergraph network. The problem
of predicting future multi-actor collaboration is mapped to hyperedge
prediction problem. Given that the higher order edge prediction is an
inherently hard problem, in this work we restrict to the task of predicting
edges (collaborations) that have already been observed in past. In this work,
we propose a novel use of hyperincidence temporal tensors to capture time
varying hypergraphs and provides a tensor decomposition based prediction
algorithm. We quantitatively compare the performance of the hypergraphs based
approach with the conventional dyadic graph based approach. Our hypothesis that
hypergraphs preserve the information that simple graphs destroy is corroborated
by experiments using author collaboration network from the DBLP dataset. Our
results demonstrate the strength of hypergraph based approach to predict higher
order collaborations (size>4) which is very difficult using dyadic graph based
approach. Moreover, while predicting collaborations of size>2 hypergraphs in
most cases provide better results with an average increase of approx. 45% in
F-Score for different sizes = {3,4,5,6,7}.


Predictive Overlapping Co-Clustering

  In the past few years co-clustering has emerged as an important data mining
tool for two way data analysis. Co-clustering is more advantageous over
traditional one dimensional clustering in many ways such as, ability to find
highly correlated sub-groups of rows and columns. However, one of the
overlooked benefits of co-clustering is that, it can be used to extract
meaningful knowledge for various other knowledge extraction purposes. For
example, building predictive models with high dimensional data and
heterogeneous population is a non-trivial task. Co-clusters extracted from such
data, which shows similar pattern in both the dimension, can be used for a more
accurate predictive model building. Several applications such as finding
patient-disease cohorts in health care analysis, finding user-genre groups in
recommendation systems and community detection problems can benefit from
co-clustering technique that utilizes the predictive power of the data to
generate co-clusters for improved data analysis.
  In this paper, we present the novel idea of Predictive Overlapping
Co-Clustering (POCC) as an optimization problem for a more effective and
improved predictive analysis. Our algorithm generates optimal co-clusters by
maximizing predictive power of the co-clusters subject to the constraints on
the number of row and column clusters. In this paper precision, recall and
f-measure have been used as evaluation measures of the resulting co-clusters.
Results of our algorithm has been compared with two other well-known techniques
- K-means and Spectral co-clustering, over four real data set namely, Leukemia,
Internet-Ads, Ovarian cancer and MovieLens data set. The results demonstrate
the effectiveness and utility of our algorithm POCC in practice.


Predicting Small Group Accretion in Social Networks: A topology based
  incremental approach

  Small Group evolution has been of central importance in social sciences and
also in the industry for understanding dynamics of team formation. While most
of research works studying groups deal at a macro level with evolution of
arbitrary size communities, in this paper we restrict ourselves to studying
evolution of small group (size $\leq20$) which is governed by contrasting
sociological phenomenon. Given a previous history of group collaboration
between a set of actors, we address the problem of predicting likely future
group collaborations. Unfortunately, predicting groups requires choosing from
$n \choose r$ possibilities (where $r$ is group size and $n$ is total number of
actors), which becomes computationally intractable as group size increases.
However, our statistical analysis of a real world dataset has shown that two
processes: an external actor joining an existing group (incremental accretion
(IA)) or collaborating with a subset of actors of an exiting group (subgroup
accretion (SA)), are largely responsible for future group formation. This helps
to drastically reduce the $n\choose r$ possibilities. We therefore, model the
attachment of a group for different actors outside this group. In this paper,
we have built three topology based prediction models to study these phenomena.
The performance of these models is evaluated using extensive experiments over
DBLP dataset. Our prediction results shows that the proposed models are
significantly useful for future group predictions both for IA and SA.


360 Quantified Self

  Wearable devices with a wide range of sensors have contributed to the rise of
the Quantified Self movement, where individuals log everything ranging from the
number of steps they have taken, to their heart rate, to their sleeping
patterns. Sensors do not, however, typically sense the social and ambient
environment of the users, such as general life style attributes or information
about their social network. This means that the users themselves, and the
medical practitioners, privy to the wearable sensor data, only have a narrow
view of the individual, limited mainly to certain aspects of their physical
condition.
  In this paper we describe a number of use cases for how social media can be
used to complement the check-up data and those from sensors to gain a more
holistic view on individuals' health, a perspective we call the 360 Quantified
Self. Health-related information can be obtained from sources as diverse as
food photo sharing, location check-ins, or profile pictures. Additionally,
information from a person's ego network can shed light on the social dimension
of wellbeing which is widely acknowledged to be of utmost importance, even
though they are currently rarely used for medical diagnosis. We articulate a
long-term vision describing the desirable list of technical advances and
variety of data to achieve an integrated system encompassing Electronic Health
Records (EHR), data from wearable devices, alongside information derived from
social media data.


Robust Automated Human Activity Recognition and its Application to Sleep
  Research

  Human Activity Recognition (HAR) is a powerful tool for understanding human
behaviour. Applying HAR to wearable sensors can provide new insights by
enriching the feature set in health studies, and enhance the personalisation
and effectiveness of health, wellness, and fitness applications. Wearable
devices provide an unobtrusive platform for user monitoring, and due to their
increasing market penetration, feel intrinsic to the wearer. The integration of
these devices in daily life provide a unique opportunity for understanding
human health and wellbeing. This is referred to as the "quantified self"
movement. The analyses of complex health behaviours such as sleep,
traditionally require a time-consuming manual interpretation by experts. This
manual work is necessary due to the erratic periodicity and persistent
noisiness of human behaviour. In this paper, we present a robust automated
human activity recognition algorithm, which we call RAHAR. We test our
algorithm in the application area of sleep research by providing a novel
framework for evaluating sleep quality and examining the correlation between
the aforementioned and an individual's physical activity. Our results improve
the state-of-the-art procedure in sleep research by 15 percent for area under
ROC and by 30 percent for F1 score on average. However, application of RAHAR is
not limited to sleep analysis and can be used for understanding other health
problems such as obesity, diabetes, and cardiac diseases.


Impact of Physical Activity on Sleep:A Deep Learning Based Exploration

  The importance of sleep is paramount for maintaining physical, emotional and
mental wellbeing. Though the relationship between sleep and physical activity
is known to be important, it is not yet fully understood. The explosion in
popularity of actigraphy and wearable devices, provides a unique opportunity to
understand this relationship. Leveraging this information source requires new
tools to be developed to facilitate data-driven research for sleep and activity
patient-recommendations.
  In this paper we explore the use of deep learning to build sleep quality
prediction models based on actigraphy data. We first use deep learning as a
pure model building device by performing human activity recognition (HAR) on
raw sensor data, and using deep learning to build sleep prediction models. We
compare the deep learning models with those build using classical approaches,
i.e. logistic regression, support vector machines, random forest and adaboost.
Secondly, we employ the advantage of deep learning with its ability to handle
high dimensional datasets. We explore several deep learning models on the raw
wearable sensor output without performing HAR or any other feature extraction.
  Our results show that using a convolutional neural network on the raw
wearables output improves the predictive value of sleep quality from physical
activity, by an additional 8% compared to state-of-the-art non-deep learning
approaches, which itself shows a 15% improvement over current practice.
Moreover, utilizing deep learning on raw data eliminates the need for data
pre-processing and simplifies the overall workflow to analyze actigraphy data
for sleep and physical activity research.


The Quantified City: Sensing Dynamics in Urban Setting

  The world is witnessing a period of extreme growth and urbanization; cities
in the 21st century became nerve centers creating economic opportunities and
cultural values which make cities grow exponentially. With this rapid urban
population growth, city infrastructure is facing major problems, from the need
to scale urban systems to sustaining the quality of services for citizen at
scale. Understanding the dynamics of cities is critical towards informed
strategic urban planning. This paper showcases QuantifiedCity, a system aimed
at understanding the complex dynamics taking place in cities. Often, these
dynamics involve humans, services, and infrastructures and are observed in
different spaces: physical (IoT-based) sensing and human (social-based)
sensing. The main challenges the system strives to address are related to data
integration and fusion to enable an effective and semantically relevant data
grouping. This is achieved by considering the spatio-temporal space as a
blocking function for any data generated in the city. Our system consists of
three layer for data acquisition, data analysis, and data visualization; each
of which embeds a variety of modules to better achieve its purpose (e.g., data
crawling, data cleaning, topic modeling, sentiment analysis, named entity
recognition, event detection, time series analysis, etc.) End users can browse
the dynamics through three main dimensions: location, time, and event. For each
dimension, the system renders a set of map-centric widgets that summarize the
underlying related dynamics. This paper highlights the need for such a holistic
platform, identifies the strengths of the "Quantified City" concept, and
showcases a working demo through a real-life scenario.


Leveraging web resources for keyword assignment to short text documents

  Assigning relevant keywords to documents is very important for efficient
retrieval, clustering and management of the documents. Especially with the web
corpus deluged with digital documents, automation of this task is of prime
importance. Keyword assignment is a broad topic of research which refers to
tagging of document with keywords, key-phrases or topics. For text documents,
the keyword assignment techniques have been developed under two sub-topics:
automatic keyword extraction (AKE) and automatic key-phrase abstraction.
However, the approaches developed in the literature for full text documents
cannot be used to assign keywords to low text content documents like twitter
feeds, news clips, product reviews or even short scholarly text. In this work,
we point out several practical challenges encountered in tagging such low text
content documents. As a solution to these challenges, we show that the proposed
approaches which leverage knowledge from several open source web resources
enhance the quality of the tags (keywords) assigned to the low text content
documents. The performance of the proposed approach is tested on real world
corpus consisting of scholarly documents with text content ranging from only
the text in the title of the document (5-10 words) to the summary text/abstract
(100- 150 words). We find that the proposed approach not just improves the
accuracy of keyword assignment but offer a computationally efficient solution
which can be used in real world applications.


A Structured Learning Approach with Neural Conditional Random Fields for
  Sleep Staging

  Sleep plays a vital role in human health, both mental and physical. Sleep
disorders like sleep apnea are increasing in prevalence, with the rapid
increase in factors like obesity. Sleep apnea is most commonly treated with
Continuous Positive Air Pressure (CPAP) therapy. Presently, however, there is
no mechanism to monitor a patient's progress with CPAP. Accurate detection of
sleep stages from CPAP flow signal is crucial for such a mechanism. We propose,
for the first time, an automated sleep staging model based only on the flow
signal. Deep neural networks have recently shown high accuracy on sleep staging
by eliminating handcrafted features. However, these methods focus exclusively
on extracting informative features from the input signal, without paying much
attention to the dynamics of sleep stages in the output sequence. We propose an
end-to-end framework that uses a combination of deep convolution and recurrent
neural networks to extract high-level features from raw flow signal with a
structured output layer based on a conditional random field to model the
temporal transition structure of the sleep stages. We improve upon the previous
methods by 10% using our model, that can be augmented to the previous sleep
staging deep learning methods. We also show that our method can be used to
accurately track sleep metrics like sleep efficiency calculated from sleep
stages that can be deployed for monitoring the response of CPAP therapy on
sleep apnea patients. Apart from the technical contributions, we expect this
study to motivate new research questions in sleep science.


Dynamics of Trust Reciprocation in Heterogenous MMOG Networks

  Understanding the dynamics of reciprocation is of great interest in sociology
and computational social science. The recent growth of Massively Multi-player
Online Games (MMOGs) has provided unprecedented access to large-scale data
which enables us to study such complex human behavior in a more systematic
manner. In this paper, we consider three different networks in the EverQuest2
game: chat, trade, and trust. The chat network has the highest level of
reciprocation (33%) because there are essentially no barriers to it. The trade
network has a lower rate of reciprocation (27%) because it has the obvious
barrier of requiring more goods or money for exchange; morever, there is no
clear benefit to returning a trade link except in terms of social connections.
The trust network has the lowest reciprocation (14%) because this equates to
sharing certain within-game assets such as weapons, and so there is a high
barrier for such connections because they require faith in the players that are
granted such high access. In general, we observe that reciprocation rate is
inversely related to the barrier level in these networks. We also note that
reciprocation has connections across the heterogeneous networks. Our
experiments indicate that players make use of the medium-barrier reciprocations
to strengthen a relationship. We hypothesize that lower-barrier interactions
are an important component to predicting higher-barrier ones. We verify our
hypothesis using predictive models for trust reciprocations using features from
trade interactions. Using the number of trades (both before and after the
initial trust link) boosts our ability to predict if the trust will be
reciprocated up to 11% with respect to the AUC.


Co-Morbidity Exploration on Wearables Activity Data Using Unsupervised
  Pre-training and Multi-Task Learning

  Physical activity and sleep play a major role in the prevention and
management of many chronic conditions. It is not a trivial task to understand
their impact on chronic conditions. Currently, data from electronic health
records (EHRs), sleep lab studies, and activity/sleep logs are used. The rapid
increase in the popularity of wearable health devices provides a significant
new data source, making it possible to track the user's lifestyle real-time
through web interfaces, both to consumer as well as their healthcare provider,
potentially. However, at present there is a gap between lifestyle data (e.g.,
sleep, physical activity) and clinical outcomes normally captured in EHRs. This
is a critical barrier for the use of this new source of signal for healthcare
decision making. Applying deep learning to wearables data provides a new
opportunity to overcome this barrier.
  To address the problem of the unavailability of clinical data from a major
fraction of subjects and unrepresentative subject populations, we propose a
novel unsupervised (task-agnostic) time-series representation learning
technique called act2vec. act2vec learns useful features by taking into account
the co-occurrence of activity levels along with periodicity of human activity
patterns. The learned representations are then exploited to boost the
performance of disorder-specific supervised learning models. Furthermore, since
many disorders are often related to each other, a phenomenon referred to as
co-morbidity, we use a multi-task learning framework for exploiting the shared
structure of disorder inducing life-style choices partially captured in the
wearables data. Empirical evaluation using actigraphy data from 4,124 subjects
shows that our proposed method performs and generalizes substantially better
than the conventional time-series symbolic representational methods and
task-specific deep learning models.


