Fairness-Aware Recommendation of Information Curators

  This paper highlights our ongoing efforts to create effective information
curator recommendation models that can be personalized for individual users,
while maintaining important fairness properties. Concretely, we introduce the
problem of information curator recommendation, provide a high-level overview of
a fairness-aware recommender, and introduce some preliminary experimental
evidence over a real-world Twitter dataset. We conclude with some thoughts on
future directions.


Online Deception Detection Refueled by Real World Data Collection

  The lack of large realistic datasets presents a bottleneck in online
deception detection studies. In this paper, we apply a data collection method
based on social network analysis to quickly identify high-quality deceptive and
truthful online reviews from Amazon. The dataset contains more than 10,000
deceptive reviews and is diverse in product domains and reviewers. Using this
dataset, we explore effective general features for online deception detection
that perform well across domains. We demonstrate that with generalized features
- advertising speak and writing complexity scores - deception detection
performance can be further improved by adding additional deceptive reviews from
assorted domains in training. Finally, reviewer level evaluation gives an
interesting insight into different deceptive reviewers' writing styles.


Tensor Completion Algorithms in Big Data Analytics

  Tensor completion is a problem of filling the missing or unobserved entries
of partially observed tensors. Due to the multidimensional character of tensors
in describing complex datasets, tensor completion algorithms and their
applications have received wide attention and achievement in areas like data
mining, computer vision, signal processing, and neuroscience. In this survey,
we provide a modern overview of recent advances in tensor completion algorithms
from the perspective of big data analytics characterized by diverse variety,
large volume, and high velocity. We characterize these advances from four
perspectives: general tensor completion algorithms, tensor completion with
auxiliary information (variety), scalable tensor completion algorithms
(volume), and dynamic tensor completion algorithms (velocity). Further, we
identify several tensor completion applications on real-world data-driven
problems and present some common experimental frameworks popularized in the
literature. Our goal is to summarize these popular methods and introduce them
to researchers and practitioners for promoting future research and
applications. We conclude with a discussion of key challenges and promising
research directions in this community for future exploration.


Pseudo-Implicit Feedback for Alleviating Data Sparsity in Top-K
  Recommendation

  We propose PsiRec, a novel user preference propagation recommender that
incorporates pseudo-implicit feedback for enriching the original sparse
implicit feedback dataset. Three of the unique characteristics of PsiRec are:
(i) it views user-item interactions as a bipartite graph and models
pseudo-implicit feedback from this perspective; (ii) its random walks-based
approach extracts graph structure information from this bipartite graph, toward
estimating pseudo-implicit feedback; and (iii) it adopts a Skip-gram inspired
measure of confidence in pseudo-implicit feedback that captures the pointwise
mutual information between users and items. This pseudo-implicit feedback is
ultimately incorporated into a new latent factor model to estimate user
preference in cases of extreme sparsity. PsiRec results in improvements of
21.5% and 22.7% in terms of Precision@10 and Recall@10 over state-of-the-art
Collaborative Denoising Auto-Encoders. Our implementation is available at
https://github.com/heyunh2015/PsiRecICDM2018.


PageRank for ranking authors in co-citation networks

  Google's PageRank has created a new synergy to information retrieval for a
better ranking of Web pages. It ranks documents depending on the topology of
the graphs and the weights of the nodes. PageRank has significantly advanced
the field of information retrieval and keeps Google ahead of competitors in the
search engine market. It has been deployed in bibliometrics to evaluate
research impact, yet few of these studies focus on the important impact of the
damping factor (d) for ranking purposes. This paper studies how varied damping
factors in the PageRank algorithm can provide additional insight into the
ranking of authors in an author co-citation network. Furthermore, we propose
weighted PageRank algorithms. We select 108 most highly cited authors in the
information retrieval (IR) area from the 1970s to 2008 to form the author
co-citation network. We calculate the ranks of these 108 authors based on
PageRank with damping factor ranging from 0.05 to 0.95. In order to test the
relationship between these different measures, we compare PageRank and weighted
PageRank results with the citation ranking, h-index, and centrality measures.
We found that in our author co-citation network, citation rank is highly
correlated with PageRank's with different damping factors and also with
different PageRank algorithms; citation rank and PageRank are not significantly
correlated with centrality measures; and h-index is not significantly
correlated with centrality measures.


