The effect of gravity on the stability of an evaporating dichloromethane  liquid film

  Zero gravity evaporation of a Dicholoromethane (DCM) liquid film is explored.The resulting film dynamics are presented and a criterion for stable films isdescribed based on the long wave theory. It is concluded that films subject tolong wave instabilities shows the appearance of the mode of maximum growth rateat rupture, irrespective of the initial condition or domain size conditions.Films stable in Earth's gravity are destabilized in zero gravity.

Shubnikov-de Haas effect in low electron density SrTiO3: Conduction band  edge of SrTiO3 redux

  The Shubnikov-de Haas effect is used to explore the conduction band edge ofhigh mobility SrTiO3 films doped with La. The results largely confirm theearlier measurements by Uwe et al. [Jap. J. Appl. Phys. 24, Suppl. 24-2, 335(1985)]. The band edge dispersion differs significantly from the predictions ofab initio electronic structure theory.

A Spatially Resolved `Inside-out' Outburst of IP Pegasi

  We present a comprehensive photometric dataset taken over the entire outburstof the eclipsing dwarf nova IP Peg in September/October 1997. Analysis of thelightcurves taken over the long rise to the peak-of-outburst shows conclusivelythat the outburst started near the centre of the disc and moved outwards. Thisis the first dataset that spatially resolves such an outburst. The dataset isconsistent with the idea that long rise times are indicative of such`inside-out' outbursts. We show how the thickness and the radius of the disc,along with the mass transfer rate change over the whole outburst. In addition,we show evidence of the secondary and the irradiation thereof. We discuss thepossibility of spiral shocks in the disc; however we find no conclusiveevidence of their existence in this dataset.

Core Services in the Architecture of the National Digital Library for  Science Education (NSDL)

  We describe the core components of the architecture for the (NSDL) NationalScience, Mathematics, Engineering, and Technology Education Digital Library.Over time the NSDL will include heterogeneous users, content, and services. Toaccommodate this, a design for a technical and organization infrastructure hasbeen formulated based on the notion of a spectrum of interoperability. Thispaper describes the first phase of the interoperability infrastructureincluding the metadata repository, search and discovery services, rightsmanagement services, and user interface portal facilities.

Design and characteristics of a WEP test in a sounding-rocket payload

  We describe SR-POEM, a Galilean test of the weak equivalence principle thatis to be conducted during the free fall portion of the flight of a soundingrocket payload. This test of a single pair of substances will have ameasurement uncertainty of {\sigma}({\eta}) < 2 10^17 after averaging theresults of eight separate drops, each of 120 s duration. The entire payload isinverted between successive drops to cancel potential sources of systematicerror. The weak equivalence principle measurement is made with a set of four ofthe SAO laser gauges, which have achieved an Allan deviation of 0.04 pm for anaveraging time of 30 s. We discuss aspects of the current design with anemphasis on those that bear on the accuracy of the determination of {\eta}. Thediscovery of a violation ({\eta} \neq 0) would have profound implications forphysics, astrophysics and cosmology.

Spectroscopic measurements of a CO2 absorption line in an open vertical  path using an airborne lidar

  We use an airborne pulsed integrated path differential absorption lidar tomake spectroscopic measurements of the pressure-induced line broadening andline center shift of atmospheric CO2 at the 1572.335 nm absorption line. Wemeasure the absorption lineshape in the vertical column between the aircraftand ground. A comparison of our measured absorption lineshape to calculationsbased on HITRAN shows excellent agreement with the peak optical depth accurateto within 0.3%. Additionally, we measure changes in the line center position towithin 5.2 MHz of calculations, and the absorption linewidth to within 0.6% ofcalculations.

Comment on "Detection and characterization of 0.5-8 MeV neutrons near  Mercury: Evidence for a solar origin"

  We argue that the hour-long neutron transient detected by the MErcurySurface, Space ENvironment, GEochemistry, and Ranging (MESSENGER) NeutronSpectrometer beginning at 15:45 UT on 2011 June 4 is due to secondary neutronsfrom energetic protons interacting in the spacecraft. The protons were probablyaccelerated by a shock that passed the spacecraft about thirty minutes earlier.We reach this conclusion after a study of data from the MESSENGER neutronspectrometer, gamma-ray spectrometer, X-ray Spectrometer, and EnergeticParticle Spectrometer, and from the particle spectrometers on STEREO A. Ourconclusion differs markedly from that given by Lawrence et al. [2014] whoclaimed that there is "strong evidence" that the neutrons were produced by theinteraction of ions in the solar atmosphere. We identify significant faultswith the authors' arguments that led them to that conclusion.

Improving Document Clustering by Eliminating Unnatural Language

  Technical documents contain a fair amount of unnatural language, such astables, formulas, pseudo-codes, etc. Unnatural language can be an importantfactor of confusing existing NLP tools. This paper presents an effective methodof distinguishing unnatural language from natural language, and evaluates theimpact of unnatural language detection on NLP tasks such as documentclustering. We view this problem as an information extraction task and build amulticlass classification model identifying unnatural language components intofour categories. First, we create a new annotated corpus by collecting slidesand papers in various formats, PPT, PDF, and HTML, where unnatural languagecomponents are annotated into four categories. We then explore featuresavailable from plain text to build a statistical model that can handle anyformat as long as it is converted into plain text. Our experiments show thatremoving unnatural language components gives an absolute improvement indocument clustering up to 15%. Our corpus and tool are publicly available.

Frequency measurements of superradiance from the strontium clock  transition

  We present the first characterization of the spectral properties ofsuperradiant light emitted from the ultra-narrow, 1 mHz linewidth optical clocktransition in an ensemble of cold $^{87}$Sr atoms. Such a light source has beenproposed as a next-generation active atomic frequency reference, with thepotential to enable high-precision optical frequency references to be usedoutside laboratory environments. By comparing the frequency of our superradiantsource to that of a state-of-the-art cavity-stabilized laser and opticallattice clock, we observe a fractional Allan deviation of $6.7(1)\times10^{-16}$ at 1 second of averaging, establish absolute accuracy at the 2 Hz($4\times 10^{-15}$ fractional frequency) level, and demonstrate insensitivityto key environmental perturbations.

Term Relevance Feedback for Contextual Named Entity Retrieval

  We address the role of a user in Contextual Named Entity Retrieval (CNER),showing (1) that user identification of important context-bearing terms issuperior to automated approaches, and (2) that further gains are possible ifthe user indicates the relative importance of those terms. CNER is similar inspirit to List Question answering and Entity disambiguation. However, the mainfocus of CNER is to obtain user feedback for constructing a profile for a classof entities on the fly and use that to retrieve entities from free text. Givena sentence, and an entity selected from that sentence, CNER aims to retrievesentences that have entities similar to query entity. This paper exploresobtaining term relevance feedback and importance weighting from humans in orderto improve a CNER system. We report our findings based on the efforts of IRresearchers as well as crowdsourced workers.

Named Entity Recognition with Extremely Limited Data

  Traditional information retrieval treats named entity recognition as apre-indexing corpus annotation task, allowing entity tags to be indexed andused during search. Named entity taggers themselves are typically trained onthousands or tens of thousands of examples labeled by humans.  However, there is a long tail of named entities classes, and for these cases,labeled data may be impossible to find or justify financially. We proposeexploring named entity recognition as a search task, where the named entityclass of interest is a query, and entities of that class are the relevant"documents". What should that query look like? Can we even perform NER-stylelabeling with tens of labels? This study presents an exploration of CRF-basedNER models with handcrafted features and of how we might transform them intosearch queries.

Explaining Controversy on Social Media via Stance Summarization

  In an era in which new controversies rapidly emerge and evolve on socialmedia, navigating social media platforms to learn about a new controversy canbe an overwhelming task. In this light, there has been significant work thatstudies how to identify and measure controversy online. However, we currentlylack a tool for effectively understanding controversy in social media. Forexample, users have to manually examine postings to find the arguments ofconflicting stances that make up the controversy.  In this paper, we study methods to generate a stance-aware summary thatexplains a given controversy by collecting arguments of two conflictingstances. We focus on Twitter and treat stance summarization as a rankingproblem of finding the top k tweets that best summarize the two conflictingstances of a controversial topic. We formalize the characteristics of a goodstance summary and propose a ranking model accordingly. We first evaluate ourmethods on five controversial topics on Twitter. Our user evaluation shows thatour methods consistently outperform other baseline techniques in generating asummary that explains the given controversy.

Cosmic-Ray Positrons: Are There Primary Sources?

  Cosmic rays at the Earth include a secondary component originating incollisions of primary particles with the diffuse interstellar gas. Thesecondary cosmic rays are relatively rare but carry important information onthe Galactic propagation of the primary particles. The secondary componentincludes a small fraction of antimatter particles, positrons and antiprotons.In addition, positrons and antiprotons may also come from unusual sources andpossibly provide insight into new physics. For instance, the annihilation ofheavy supersymmetric dark matter particles within the Galactic halo could leadto positrons or antiprotons with distinctive energy signatures. With theHigh-Energy Antimatter Telescope (HEAT) balloon-borne instrument, we havemeasured the abundances of positrons and electrons at energies between 1 and 50GeV. The data suggest that indeed a small additional antimatter component maybe present that cannot be explained by a purely secondary production mechanism.Here we describe the signature of the effect and discuss its possible origin.

Fast Tree Search for Enumeration of a Lattice Model of Protein Folding

  Using a fast tree-searching algorithm and a Pentium cluster, we enumeratedall the sequences and compact conformations (structures) for a protein foldingmodel on a cubic lattice of size $4\times3\times3$. We used two types of aminoacids -- hydrophobic (H) and polar (P) -- to make up the sequences, so therewere $2^{36} \approx 6.87 \times 10^{10}$ different sequences. The total numberof distinct structures was 84,731,192. We made use of a simple solvation modelin which the energy of a sequence folded into a structure is minus the numberof hydrophobic amino acids in the ``core'' of the structure. For everysequence, we found its ground state or ground states, i.e., the structure orstructures for which its energy is lowest. About 0.3% of the sequences have aunique ground state. The number of structures that are unique ground states ofat least one sequence is 2,662,050, about 3% of the total number of structures.However, these ``designable'' structures differ drastically in theirdesignability, defined as the number of sequences whose unique ground state isthat structure. To understand this variation in designability, we studied thedistribution of structures in a high dimensional space in which each structureis represented by a string of 1's and 0's, denoting core and surface sites,respectively.

Evaluation of Long Term Performance of Continuously Running Atomic  Fountains

  An ensemble of rubidium atomic fountain clocks has been put into operation atthe U.S. Naval Observatory (USNO). These fountains are used as continuousclocks in the manner of commercial cesium beams and hydrogen masers for thepurpose of improved timing applications. Four fountains have been in operationfor more than two years and are included in the ensemble used to generate theUSNO master clock. Individual fountain performance is characterized by awhite-frequency noise level below $2\times 10^{-13}$ and fractional-frequencystability routinely reaching the low $10^{-16}$s. The highest performing pairof fountains exhibits stability consistent with each fountain integrating aswhite frequency noise, with Allan deviation surpassing $6\times 10^{-17}$ at$10^7$~s, and with no relative drift between the fountains at the level of $7.5\times 10^{-19}$/day. As an ensemble, the fountains generate a timescale withwhite-frequency noise level of $1\times 10^{-13}$ and long-term frequencystability consistent with zero drift relative to the world's primary standardsat $1 \times 10^{-18}$/day. The rubidium fountains are reported to the BIPM ascontinuously running clocks, as opposed to secondary standards, the onlycold-atom clocks so reported. Here we further characterize the performance ofthe individual fountains and the ensemble during the first two years in anoperational environment, presenting the first look at long-term continuousbehavior of fountain clocks.

Modulation of mechanical resonance by chemical potential oscillation in  graphene

  The classical picture of the force on a capacitor assumes a large density ofelectronic states, such that the electrochemical potential of charges added tothe capacitor is given by the external electrostatic potential and thecapacitance is determined purely by geometry. Here we consider capacitivelydriven motion of a nano-mechanical resonator with a low density of states, inwhich these assumptions can break down. We find three leading-order correctionsto the classical picture: the first of is a modulation in the static force dueto variation in the internal chemical potential, the second and third arechange in static force and dynamic spring constant due to the rate of change ofchemical potential, expressed as the quantum (density of states) capacitance.As a demonstration, we study a capacitively driven graphene mechanicalresonators, where the chemical potential is modulated independently of the gatevoltage using an applied magnetic field to manipulate the energy of electronsresiding in discrete Landau levels. In these devices, we observe large periodicfrequency shifts consistent with the three corrections to the classicalpicture. In devices with extremely low strain and disorder, the firstcorrection term dominates and the resonant frequency closely follows thechemical potential. The theoretical model fits the data with only oneadjustable parameter representing disorder-broadening of the Landau levels. Theunderlying electromechanical coupling mechanism is not limited the particularchoice of material, geometry, or mechanism for variation in chemical potential,and can thus be extended to other low-dimensional systems.

Is Climate Change Controversial? Modeling Controversy as Contention  Within Populations

  A growing body of research focuses on computationally detecting controversialtopics and understanding the stances people hold on them. Yet gaps remain inour theoretical and practical understanding of how to define controversy, howit manifests, and how to measure it. In this paper, we introduce a novelmeasure we call "contention", defined with respect to a topic and a population.We model contention from a mathematical standpoint. We validate our model byexamining a diverse set of sources: real-world polling data sets, actual voterdata, and Twitter coverage on several topics. In our publicly-released Twitterdata set of nearly 100M tweets, we examine several topics such as Brexit, the2016 U.S. Elections, and "The Dress", and cross-reference them with othersources. We demonstrate that the contention measure holds explanatory power fora wide variety of observed phenomena, such as controversies over climate changeand other topics that are well within scientific consensus. Finally, were-examine the notion of controversy, and present a theoretical framework thatdefines it in terms of population. We present preliminary evidence suggestingthat contention is one dimension of controversy, along with others, such as"importance". Our new contention measure, along with the hypothesized model ofcontroversy, suggest several avenues for future work in this emerginginterdisciplinary research area.

Monitoring through many eyes: Integrating disparate datasets to improve  monitoring of the Great Barrier Reef

  Numerous organisations collect data in the Great Barrier Reef (GBR), but theyare rarely analysed together due to different program objectives, methods, anddata quality. We developed a weighted spatiotemporal Bayesian model and used itto integrate image based hard coral data collected by professional and citizenscientists, who captured and or classified underwater images. We used the modelto predict coral cover across the GBR with estimates of uncertainty; thusfilling gaps in space and time where no data exist. Additional data increasedthe models predictive ability by 43 percent, but did not affect modelinferences about pressures (e.g. bleaching and cyclone damage). Thus, effectiveintegration of professional and high-volume citizen data could enhance thecapacity and cost efficiency of monitoring programs. This general approach isequally viable for other variables collected in the marine environment or otherecosystems; opening up new opportunities to integrate data and provide pathwaysfor community engagement and stewardship.

Small Animal Multivariate Brain Analysis (SAMBA): A High Throughput  Pipeline with a Validation Framework

  While many neuroscience questions aim to understand the human brain, muchcurrent knowledge has been gained using animal models, which replicate genetic,structural, and connectivity aspects of the human brain. While voxel-basedanalysis (VBA) of preclinical magnetic resonance images is widely-used, athorough examination of the statistical robustness, stability, and error ratesis hindered by high computational demands of processing large arrays, and themany parameters involved. Thus, workflows are often based on intuition orexperience, while preclinical validation studies remain scarce. To increasethroughput and reproducibility of quantitative small animal brain studies, wehave developed a publicly shared, high throughput VBA pipeline in ahigh-performance computing environment, called SAMBA. The increasedcomputational efficiency allowed large multidimensional arrays to be processedin 1-3 days, a task that previously took ~1 month. To quantify the variabilityand reliability of preclinical VBA in rodent models, we propose a validationframework consisting of morphological phantoms, and four metrics. Thisaddresses several sources that impact VBA results, including registration andtemplate construction strategies. We have used this framework to inform the VBAworkflow parameters in a VBA study for a mouse model of epilepsy. We alsopresent initial efforts towards standardizing small animal neuroimaging data ina similar fashion with human neuroimaging. We conclude that verifying theaccuracy of VBA merits attention, and should be the focus of a broader effortwithin the community. The proposed framework promotes consistent qualityassurance of VBA in preclinical neuroimaging; facilitating the creation andcommunication of robust results.

A proposal for a coordinated effort for the determination of brainwide  neuroanatomical connectivity in model organisms at a mesoscopic scale

  In this era of complete genomes, our knowledge of neuroanatomical circuitryremains surprisingly sparse. Such knowledge is however critical both for basicand clinical research into brain function. Here we advocate for a concertedeffort to fill this gap, through systematic, experimental mapping of neuralcircuits at a mesoscopic scale of resolution suitable for comprehensive,brain-wide coverage, using injections of tracers or viral vectors. We detailthe scientific and medical rationale and briefly review existing knowledge andexperimental techniques. We define a set of desiderata, including brain-widecoverage; validated and extensible experimental techniques suitable forstandardization and automation; centralized, open access data repository;compatibility with existing resources, and tractability with currentinformatics technology. We discuss a hypothetical but tractable plan for mouse,additional efforts for the macaque, and technique development for human. Weestimate that the mouse connectivity project could be completed within fiveyears with a comparatively modest budget.

Physics of Solar Neutron Production: Questionable Detection of Neutrons  from the 2007 December 31 Flare

  Spacecraft observations in the inner heliosphere offer the first opportunityto measure 1-10 MeV solar neutrons. We discuss the physics of low-energyneutron production in solar flares and show that, even at interacting-particleenergies of 2 MeV/nucleon, neutrons with energies >10 MeV are produced. On theother hand, a significant fraction of 1-10 MeV neutrons result frominteractions of >10 MeV/nucleon ions in typical flare spectra. We calculate theescaping neutron spectra for mono-energetic and power-law particle spectra atthe Sun for the location and observation angle of MESSENGER at the time of itsreported detection of low-energy neutrons associated with the 2007 December 31solar flare. We detail concerns about this questionable observation of solarneutrons: 1. the inferred number of accelerated protons at the Sun for thismodest M2-class flare was 10X larger than any flare observed to date, 2. theonset and duration of the 'solar' neutron count rate was similar to that of thesolar energetic particles (SEPs), and 3. the authors' argument that the SEPswere dominated by electrons and so could not have produced the neutron countslocally in the spacecraft. In contrast we argue that solar energetic protonsand alpha particles, through local neutron production and accidentalcoincidences, were the source of most of the reported 'solar-neutron' counts.

Interface-Induced Phenomena in Magnetism

  This article reviews static and dynamic interfacial effects in magnetism,focusing on interfacially-driven magnetic effects and phenomena associated withspin-orbit coupling and intrinsic symmetry breaking at interfaces. It providesa historical background and literature survey, but focuses on recent progress,identifying the most exciting new scientific results and pointing to promisingfuture research directions. It starts with an introduction and overview of howbasic magnetic properties are affected by interfaces, then turns to adiscussion of charge and spin transport through and near interfaces and howthese can be used to control the properties of the magnetic layer. Importantconcepts include spin accumulation, spin currents, spin transfer torque, andspin pumping. An overview is provided to the current state of knowledge andexisting review literature on interfacial effects such as exchange bias,exchange spring magnets, spin Hall effect, oxide heterostructures, andtopological insulators. The article highlights recent discoveries ofinterface-induced magnetism and non-collinear spin textures, non-lineardynamics including spin torque transfer and magnetization reversal induced byinterfaces, and interfacial effects in ultrafast magnetization processes.

The SOFIA Observatory at the Start of Routine Science Operations :  Mission capabilities and performance

  The Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared Astronomy (SOFIA) has recentlyconcluded a set of engineering flights for Observatory performance evaluation.These in-flight opportunities are viewed as a first comprehensive assessment ofthe Observatory's performance and are used to guide future developmentactivities, as well as to identify additional Observatory upgrades. Pointingstability was evaluated, including the image motion due to rigid-body andflexible-body telescope modes as well as possible aero-optical image motion. Wereport on recent improvements in pointing stability by using an active massdamper system installed on the telescope. Measurements and characterization ofthe shear layer and cavity seeing, as well as image quality evaluation as afunction of wavelength have also been performed. Additional tests targetedbasic Observatory capabilities and requirements, including pointing accuracy,chopper evaluation and imager sensitivity. This paper reports on the datacollected during these flights and presents current SOFIA Observatoryperformance and characterization.

HI 21cm Cosmology and the Bi-spectrum: Closure Diagnostics in Massively  Redundant Interferometric Arrays

  New massively redundant low frequency arrays allow for a novel investigationof closure relations in interferometry. We employ commissioning data from theHydrogen Epoch of Reionization Array to investigate closure quantities in thisdensely packed grid array of 14m antennas operating at 100 MHz to 200 MHz. Weinvestigate techniques that utilize closure phase spectra for redundant triadsto estimate departures from redundancy for redundant baseline visibilities. Wefind a median absolute deviation from redundancy in closure phase across theobserved frequency range of about 4.5deg. This value translates into anon-redundancy per visibility phase of about 2.6deg, using prototypeelectronics. The median absolute deviations from redundancy decrease withlonger baselines. We show that closure phase spectra can be used to identifyill-behaved antennas in the array, independent of calibration. We investigatethe temporal behavior of closure spectra. The Allan variance increases after aone minute stride time, due to passage of the sky through the primary beam ofthe transit telescope. However, the closure spectra repeat to well within thenoise per measurement at corresponding local sidereal times (LST) from day today. In future papers in this series we will develop the technique of usingclosure phase spectra in the search for the HI 21cm signal from cosmicreionization.

The Nuclear Spectroscopic Telescope Array (NuSTAR) Mission

  The Nuclear Spectroscopic Telescope Array (NuSTAR) mission, launched on 13June 2012, is the first focusing high-energy X-ray telescope in orbit. NuSTARoperates in the band from 3 -- 79 keV, extending the sensitivity of focusingfar beyond the ~10 keV high-energy cutoff achieved by all previous X-raysatellites. The inherently low-background associated with concentrating theX-ray light enables NuSTAR to probe the hard X-ray sky with a more thanone-hundred-fold improvement in sensitivity over the collimated or coded-maskinstruments that have operated in this bandpass. Using its unprecedentedcombination of sensitivity, spatial and spectral resolution, NuSTAR will pursuefive primary scientific objectives, and will also undertake a broad program oftargeted observations. The observatory consists of two co-alignedgrazing-incidence X-ray telescopes pointed at celestial targets by a three-axisstabilized spacecraft. Deployed into a 600 km, near-circular, 6degreeinclination orbit, the Observatory has now completed commissioning, and isperforming consistent with pre-launch expectations. NuSTAR is now executing itsprimary science mission, and with an expected orbit lifetime of ten years, weanticipate proposing a guest investigator program, to begin in Fall 2014.

The Pierre Auger Observatory: Contributions to the 33rd International  Cosmic Ray Conference (ICRC 2013)

  Contributions of the Pierre Auger Collaboration to the 33rd InternationalCosmic Ray Conference, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, July 2013

Measurement of the cosmic ray spectrum above $4{\times}10^{18}$ eV using  inclined events detected with the Pierre Auger Observatory

  A measurement of the cosmic-ray spectrum for energies exceeding$4{\times}10^{18}$ eV is presented, which is based on the analysis of showerswith zenith angles greater than $60^{\circ}$ detected with the Pierre AugerObservatory between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2013. The measured spectrumconfirms a flux suppression at the highest energies. Above $5.3{\times}10^{18}$eV, the "ankle", the flux can be described by a power law $E^{-\gamma}$ withindex $\gamma=2.70 \pm 0.02 \,\text{(stat)} \pm 0.1\,\text{(sys)}$ followed bya smooth suppression region. For the energy ($E_\text{s}$) at which thespectral flux has fallen to one-half of its extrapolated value in the absenceof suppression, we find$E_\text{s}=(5.12\pm0.25\,\text{(stat)}^{+1.0}_{-1.2}\,\text{(sys)}){\times}10^{19}$eV.

Measurement of the Radiation Energy in the Radio Signal of Extensive Air  Showers as a Universal Estimator of Cosmic-Ray Energy

  We measure the energy emitted by extensive air showers in the form of radioemission in the frequency range from 30 to 80 MHz. Exploiting the accurateenergy scale of the Pierre Auger Observatory, we obtain a radiation energy of15.8 \pm 0.7 (stat) \pm 6.7 (sys) MeV for cosmic rays with an energy of 1 EeVarriving perpendicularly to a geomagnetic field of 0.24 G, scalingquadratically with the cosmic-ray energy. A comparison with predictions fromstate-of-the-art first-principle calculations shows agreement with ourmeasurement. The radiation energy provides direct access to the calorimetricenergy in the electromagnetic cascade of extensive air showers. Comparison withour result thus allows the direct calibration of any cosmic-ray radio detectoragainst the well-established energy scale of the Pierre Auger Observatory.

An improved limit to the diffuse flux of ultra-high energy neutrinos  from the Pierre Auger Observatory

  Neutrinos in the cosmic ray flux with energies near 1 EeV and above aredetectable with the Surface Detector array of the Pierre Auger Observatory. Wereport here on searches through Auger data from 1 January 2004 until 20 June2013. No neutrino candidates were found, yielding a limit to the diffuse fluxof ultra-high energy neutrinos that challenges the Waxman-Bahcall boundpredictions. Neutrino identification is attempted using the broadtime-structure of the signals expected in the SD stations, and is efficientlydone for neutrinos of all flavors interacting in the atmosphere at large zenithangles, as well as for "Earth-skimming" neutrino interactions in the case oftau neutrinos. In this paper the searches for downward-going neutrinos in thezenith angle bins $60^\circ-75^\circ$ and $75^\circ-90^\circ$ as well as forupward-going neutrinos, are combined to give a single limit. The $90\%$ C.L.single-flavor limit to the diffuse flux of ultra-high energy neutrinos with an$E^{-2}$ spectrum in the energy range $1.0 \times 10^{17}$ eV - $2.5 \times10^{19}$ eV is $E_\nu^2 dN_\nu/dE_\nu < 6.4 \times 10^{-9}~ {\rm GeV~ cm^{-2}~s^{-1}~ sr^{-1}}$.

Energy Estimation of Cosmic Rays with the Engineering Radio Array of the  Pierre Auger Observatory

  The Auger Engineering Radio Array (AERA) is part of the Pierre AugerObservatory and is used to detect the radio emission of cosmic-ray air showers.These observations are compared to the data of the surface detector stations ofthe Observatory, which provide well-calibrated information on the cosmic-rayenergies and arrival directions. The response of the radio stations in the 30to 80 MHz regime has been thoroughly calibrated to enable the reconstruction ofthe incoming electric field. For the latter, the energy deposit per area isdetermined from the radio pulses at each observer position and is interpolatedusing a two-dimensional function that takes into account signal asymmetries dueto interference between the geomagnetic and charge-excess emission components.The spatial integral over the signal distribution gives a direct measurement ofthe energy transferred from the primary cosmic ray into radio emission in theAERA frequency range. We measure 15.8 MeV of radiation energy for a 1 EeV airshower arriving perpendicularly to the geomagnetic field. This radiation energy-- corrected for geometrical effects -- is used as a cosmic-ray energyestimator. Performing an absolute energy calibration against thesurface-detector information, we observe that this radio-energy estimatorscales quadratically with the cosmic-ray energy as expected for coherentemission. We find an energy resolution of the radio reconstruction of 22% forthe data set and 17% for a high-quality subset containing only events with atleast five radio stations with signal.

The EChO science case

  The discovery of almost 2000 exoplanets has revealed an unexpectedly diverseplanet population. Observations to date have shown that our Solar System iscertainly not representative of the general population of planets in our MilkyWay. The key science questions that urgently need addressing are therefore:What are exoplanets made of? Why are planets as they are? What causes theexceptional diversity observed as compared to the Solar System?  EChO (Exoplanet Characterisation Observatory) has been designed as adedicated survey mission for transit and eclipse spectroscopy capable ofobserving a large and diverse planet sample within its four-year missionlifetime. EChO can target the atmospheres of super-Earths, Neptune-like, andJupiter-like planets, in the very hot to temperate zones (planet temperaturesof 300K-3000K) of F to M-type host stars. Over the next ten years, several newground- and space-based transit surveys will come on-line (e.g. NGTS, CHEOPS,TESS, PLATO), which will specifically focus on finding bright, nearby systems.The current rapid rate of discovery would allow the target list to be furtheroptimised in the years prior to EChO's launch and enable the atmosphericcharacterisation of hundreds of planets. Placing the satellite at L2 provides acold and stable thermal environment, as well as a large field of regard toallow efficient time-critical observation of targets randomly distributed overthe sky. A 1m class telescope is sufficiently large to achieve the necessaryspectro-photometric precision. The spectral coverage (0.5-11 micron, goal 16micron) and SNR to be achieved by EChO, thanks to its high stability anddedicated design, would enable a very accurate measurement of the atmosphericcomposition and structure of hundreds of exoplanets.

