Multiparty simultaneous quantum identity authentication based on
  entanglement swapping

  We present a multiparty simultaneous quantum identity authentication protocol
based on entanglement swapping. In our protocol, the multi-user can be
authenticated by a trusted third party simultaneously.


Probing the Nucleon's Transversity Via Two-Meson Production in Polarized
  Nucleon-Nucleon Collisions

  We explore the possibility of probing the nucleon's transversity distribution
$\delta q(x)$ through the final state interaction between two mesons
($\pi^+\pi^-$, $\pi K$, or $K\bar K$) produced in transversely polarized
nucleon-nucleon collisions. We present a single spin asymmetry and estimate its
magnitude under some assumptions for the transversity distribution function and
the unknown interference fragmentation function.


On near detectors at a neutrino factory

  The geometric effects of the beam in near detectors at a neutrino factory are
discussed. The refined systematics treatment, including cross section errors,
flux errors and background uncertainties, is compared with the IDS-NF one.
Different near detector setups are included. We also probe their effects both
at the measurements of standard neutrino oscillation parameters and constraints
of the non-standard neutrino interaction.


Classical simulation of Quantum Entanglement using Optical Transverse
  Modes in Multimode Waveguides

  We discuss mode-entangled states based on the optical transverse modes of the
optical field propagating in multi-mode waveguides, which are classical analogs
of the quantum entangled states. The analogs are discussed in detail, including
the violation of the Bell inequality and the correlation properties of optical
pulses' group delays. The research on these analogs may be important, for it
not only provides useful insights into fundamental features of quantum
entanglement, but also yields new insights into quantum computation and quantum
communication.


Quantum secure direct communication without using perfect quantum
  channel

  Most of the quantum secure direct communication protocol needs a
pre-established secure quantum channel. Only after insuring the security of
quantum channel, could the sender encode the secret message and send them to
the receiver through the secure channel. In this paper, we present a quantum
secure direct communication protocol using Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs. It is
not necessary for the present protocol to insure the security of quantum
channel before transmitting the secret message. In the present protocol, all
Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs are used to transmit the secret message except
those chosen for eavesdropping check.


Quantum signature scheme with single photons

  Quantum digital signature combines quantum theory with classical digital
signature. The main goal of this field is to take advantage of quantum effects
to provide unconditionally secure signature. We present a quantum signature
scheme with message recovery without using entangle effect. The most important
property of the proposed scheme is that it is not necessary for the scheme to
use Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states. The present scheme utilizes single
photons to achieve the aim of signature and verification. The security of the
scheme relies on the quantum one-time pad and quantum key distribution. The
efficiency analysis shows that the proposed scheme is an efficient scheme.


Quantum secure direct communication based on order rearrangement of
  single photons

  Based on the ideal of order rearrangement and block transmission of photons,
we present a quantum secure direct communication scheme using single photons.
The security of the present scheme is ensured by quantum no-cloning theory and
the secret transmitting order of photons. The present scheme is efficient in
that all of the polarized photons are used to transmit the sender's secret
message except those chosen for eavesdropping check. We also generalize this
scheme to a multiparty controlled quantum secret direct communication scheme
which the sender's secret message can only be recovered by the receiver under
the permission of all the controllers.


Quantum secure direct communication with pure entangled states

  We present a quantum secure direct communication protocol where the channels
are not maximally entangled states. The communication parties utilize decoy
photons to check eavesdropping. After ensuring the security of the quantum
channel, the sender encodes the secret message and transmits it to the receiver
by using Controlled-NOT operation and von Neumann measurement. The protocol is
simple and realizable with present technology. We also show the protocol is
secure for noisy quantum channel.


Semiquantum key distribution using entangled states

  Recently, Boyer et al. presented a novel semiquantum key distribution
protocol [M. Boyer, D. Kenigsberg, and T. Mor, Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 140501
(2007)], by using four quantum states, each of which is randomly prepared by Z
basis or X basis. Here we present a semiquantum key distribution protocol by
using entangled states in which quantum Alice shares a secret key with
classical Bob. We also show the protocol is secure against eavesdropping.


Rectifying full-counting statistics in a spin Seebeck engine

  We investigate the rectification and negative differential effects of
full-counting statistics of conjugate thermal spin transport in a spin Seebeck
engine. The engine is made by an electron/magnon interface diode driven by a
temperature bias, of which the scaled cumulant generating function is
formulated in the framework of nonequilibrium Green's function. The strongly
fluctuating interfacial electron density of states induced by quantum dot is
responsible for these intriguing properties. This work is relevant for
designing efficient spin caloritronic engine and can broaden our view in
nonequilibrium thermodynamics and the nonlinear phenomenon in quantum transport
system.


Premise Selection for Theorem Proving by Deep Graph Embedding

  We propose a deep learning-based approach to the problem of premise
selection: selecting mathematical statements relevant for proving a given
conjecture. We represent a higher-order logic formula as a graph that is
invariant to variable renaming but still fully preserves syntactic and semantic
information. We then embed the graph into a vector via a novel embedding method
that preserves the information of edge ordering. Our approach achieves
state-of-the-art results on the HolStep dataset, improving the classification
accuracy from 83% to 90.3%.


Restudy on Dark Matter Time-Evolution in the Littlest Higgs model with
  T-parity

  Following previous study, in the Littlest Higgs model (LHM), the heavy photon
is supposed to be a possible dark matter candidate and its relic abundance of
the heavy photon is estimated in terms of the Boltzman-Lee-Weinberg
time-evolution equation. The effects of the T-parity violation is also
considered. Our calculations show that when Higgs mass $M_H$ taken to be 300
GeV and don't consider T-parity violation, only two narrow ranges
$133<M_{A_{H}}<135$ GeV and $167<M_{A_{H}}<169$ GeV are tolerable with the
current astrophysical observation and if $135<M_{A_{H}}<167$ GeV, there must at
least exist another species of heavy particle contributing to the cold dark
matter. As long as the T-parity can be violated, the heavy photon can decay
into regular standard model particles and would affect the dark matter
abundance in the universe, we discuss the constraint on the T-parity violation
parameter based on the present data. Direct detection prospects are also
discussed in some detail.


LINE: Large-scale Information Network Embedding

  This paper studies the problem of embedding very large information networks
into low-dimensional vector spaces, which is useful in many tasks such as
visualization, node classification, and link prediction. Most existing graph
embedding methods do not scale for real world information networks which
usually contain millions of nodes. In this paper, we propose a novel network
embedding method called the "LINE," which is suitable for arbitrary types of
information networks: undirected, directed, and/or weighted. The method
optimizes a carefully designed objective function that preserves both the local
and global network structures. An edge-sampling algorithm is proposed that
addresses the limitation of the classical stochastic gradient descent and
improves both the effectiveness and the efficiency of the inference. Empirical
experiments prove the effectiveness of the LINE on a variety of real-world
information networks, including language networks, social networks, and
citation networks. The algorithm is very efficient, which is able to learn the
embedding of a network with millions of vertices and billions of edges in a few
hours on a typical single machine. The source code of the LINE is available
online.


Phenomenology of Neutrino Oscillations at the Neutrino Factory

  We consider the prospects for a neutrino factory to measure mixing angles,
the CP violating phase and mass-squared differences by detecting wrong-charged
muons arising from the chain \mu^+ to \nu_e to \nu_\mu\ to \mu^- and the
right-charged muons coming from the chain \mu^+ to \bar{\nu}_\mu\ to
\bar{\nu}_\mu\ to \mu^+ (similar to \mu^- chains), where \nu_e to \nu_\mu\ and
\bar{\nu}_\mu\ to \bar{\nu}_\mu\ are neutrino oscillation channels through a
long baseline. First, we perform the baseline and energy optimization of the
neutrino factory including the latest simulation results from the magnetized
iron neutrino detector (MIND). Second, we study physics with near detectors and
consider the treatment of systematic errors including cross section errors,
flux errors, and background uncertainties. Third, the effects of one additional
massive sterile neutrino are investigated in the context of near and far
detector combinations.


Identity-sensitive Word Embedding through Heterogeneous Networks

  Most existing word embedding approaches do not distinguish the same words in
different contexts, therefore ignoring their contextual meanings. As a result,
the learned embeddings of these words are usually a mixture of multiple
meanings. In this paper, we acknowledge multiple identities of the same word in
different contexts and learn the \textbf{identity-sensitive} word embeddings.
Based on an identity-labeled text corpora, a heterogeneous network of words and
word identities is constructed to model different-levels of word
co-occurrences. The heterogeneous network is further embedded into a
low-dimensional space through a principled network embedding approach, through
which we are able to obtain the embeddings of words and the embeddings of word
identities. We study three different types of word identities including topics,
sentiments and categories. Experimental results on real-world data sets show
that the identity-sensitive word embeddings learned by our approach indeed
capture different meanings of words and outperforms competitive methods on
tasks including text classification and word similarity computation.


Context-aware Natural Language Generation with Recurrent Neural Networks

  This paper studied generating natural languages at particular contexts or
situations. We proposed two novel approaches which encode the contexts into a
continuous semantic representation and then decode the semantic representation
into text sequences with recurrent neural networks. During decoding, the
context information are attended through a gating mechanism, addressing the
problem of long-range dependency caused by lengthy sequences. We evaluate the
effectiveness of the proposed approaches on user review data, in which rich
contexts are available and two informative contexts, sentiments and products,
are selected for evaluation. Experiments show that the fake reviews generated
by our approaches are very natural. Results of fake review detection with human
judges show that more than 50\% of the fake reviews are misclassified as the
real reviews, and more than 90\% are misclassified by existing state-of-the-art
fake review detection algorithm.


Study of Non-Standard Charged-Current Interactions at the MOMENT
  experiment

  MuOn-decay MEdium baseline NeuTrino beam experiment (MOMENT) is a
next-generation accelerator neutrino experiment looking for more physics study.
We try to simulate neutrino oscillations confronting with
Charged-Current\&Non-Standard neutrino Interactions(CC-NSIs) at MOMENT. These
NSIs could alter neutrino production and detection processes and get involved
in neutrino oscillation channels. We separate a perturbative discussion of
oscillation channels at near and far detectors, and analyze parameter
correlations with the impact of CC-NSIs. Taking $\delta_{cp}$ and $\theta_{23}$
as an example, we find that CC-NSIs can induce bias in precision measurements
of standard oscillation parameters. In addition, a combination of near and far
detectors using Gd-doped water cherenkov technology at MOMENT is able to
provide good constraints of CC-NSIs happening at the neutrino production and
detection processes.


End-to-end Learning for Short Text Expansion

  Effectively making sense of short texts is a critical task for many real
world applications such as search engines, social media services, and
recommender systems. The task is particularly challenging as a short text
contains very sparse information, often too sparse for a machine learning
algorithm to pick up useful signals. A common practice for analyzing short text
is to first expand it with external information, which is usually harvested
from a large collection of longer texts. In literature, short text expansion
has been done with all kinds of heuristics. We propose an end-to-end solution
that automatically learns how to expand short text to optimize a given learning
task. A novel deep memory network is proposed to automatically find relevant
information from a collection of longer documents and reformulate the short
text through a gating mechanism. Using short text classification as a
demonstrating task, we show that the deep memory network significantly
outperforms classical text expansion methods with comprehensive experiments on
real world data sets.


Extracting nuclear form factors with coherent neutrino scattering

  Coherent elastic neutrino-nucleus scattering (CEvNS) can be used to determine
the neutron part of nuclear form factors, unlocking intrinsic properties of
nuclear structure. In contrast with other such methods, CEvNS is free from both
strong interaction effects and Coulomb distortions. We propose precision
measurements of CEvNS with an upcoming accelerator facility and determine the
corresponding requirements for such a neutrino detector. We find that most
significant backgrounds come from fast neutrons, induced by cosmogenic muons or
from the pion decays at rest in the target station. With ton-scale liquid noble
gas detectors, we will not only achieve percent level precision in the
measurement of neutron radii but also clarify contributions of higher-order
moments to nuclear form factors.


Quantum coherence across bosonic superconductor-anomalous
  metal-insulator transitions

  After decades of explorations, suffering from low critical temperature and
subtle nature, whether a metallic ground state exists in a two-dimensional
system beyond Anderson localization is still a mystery. Supremely, phase
coherence could be the key that unlocks its intriguing nature. This work
reveals how quantum phase coherence evolves across bosonic
superconductor-metal-insulator transitions via magneto-conductance quantum
oscillations in high-Tc superconducting films. A robust intervening anomalous
metallic state characterized by both resistance and oscillation amplitude
saturations in the low temperature regime is detected. By contrast, with
decreasing temperature the oscillation amplitude monotonically grows on the
superconducting side, but decreases at low temperatures on the insulating side.
It suggests that the saturation of phase coherence plays a prominent role in
the formation of this anomalous metallic state.


Interference Fragmentation Functions and the Nucleon's Transversity

  We introduce twist-two quark interference fragmentation functions in helicity
density matrix formalism and study their physical implications. We show how the
nucleon's transversity distribution can be probed through the final state
interaction between two mesons ($\pi^+\pi^-$, $K\bar K$, or $\pi K$) produced
in the current fragmentation region in deep inelastic scattering on a
transversely polarized nucleon.


Can Transversity Be Measured?

  I review the ways that have been proposed to measure the quark transversity
distribution in the nucleon. I then explain a proposal, developed by Xuemin
Jin, Jian Tang and myself, to measure transversity through the final state
interaction between two mesons ($\pi\pi$, $K \bar K$, or $\pi K$) produced in
the current fragmentation region in deep inelastic scattering on a transversely
polarized nucleon.


Interference Fragmentation Functions and Valence Quark Spin
  Distributions in the Nucleon

  We explore further applications of the twist-two quark interference
fragmentation functions introduced earlier. We show that semi-inclusive
production of two pions in the current fragmentation region in deep inelastic
scattering of a longitudinally polarized electron on a longitudinally polarized
nucleon can provide a probe of the valence quark spin (or helicity difference)
distribution in the nucleon.


1-bit Compressive Data Gathering for Wireless Sensor Networks

  Compressive sensing (CS) has been widely used for the data gathering in
wireless sensor networks for the purpose of reducing the communication overhead
recent years. In this paper, we first show that with simple modification, 1-bit
compressive sensing can also been used for the data gathering in wireless
sensor networks to further reduce the communication overhead. We also propose a
novel blind 1-bit CS reconstruction algorithm which outperforms other state of
the art blind 1-bit CS reconstruction algorithms. Experimental results on real
sensor datasets demonstrate the efficiency of our method.


Study on the imaging ability of the 2D neutron detector based on MWPC

  A 2D neutron detector based on 3He convertor and MWPC with an active area of
200 mm \times 200 mm has been successfully designed and fabricated. The
detector has been tested with Am/Be neutron source and with collimated neutron
beam with wavelength of {\lambda} = 1.37 {\AA}. A best spatial resolution of
1.18 mm (FWHM) and good linearity were obtained. This is in good agreement with
the theoretical calculations.


The optimal search on graph by continuous-time quantum walks

  Chakraborty and Leonardo have shown that a spatial search by quantum walk is
optimal for almost all graphs. However, we observed that on some graphs,
certain states cannot be searched optimally. We present a method for
constructing an optimal graph that searches an arbitrary state and provides the
optimal condition. We also analyze the monotonicity of the search performance
and conclude that the search performance can be improved by adding edges.


Exceed Improved Efficient Perovskite Solar Cells Under Dual-Irradiation
  System

  In general, perovskite solar cells (PSC) with a sensitized or thin film
architecture absorb light from a single illumination. This paper reported a PSC
architecture with a semitransparent Au/ITO counter electrode, which allows
light to pass it partially. When the device was illuminated simultaneously from
both the FTO and Au/ITO sides, the PSC has achieved an overall power conversion
efficiency (PCE) as high as 20.1% under high light intensity (1.4 sun), which
is much higher than that of the single-irradiation system.


Carboxyl Carbon Quantum Dots: a Novel Type of Environmental-Friendly
  Scale Inhibitor

  In this work, we demonstrate high inhibition efficiency of carboxyl carbon
quantum dots (CCQDs) for the first time. The as-prepared CCQDs have excellent
scale inhibition performance for calcium sulfate and barium sulfate. With
static test of scale inhibition within temperature below 80 degrees, the
anti-scaling efficiency can reach 100 % with low additions of CCQDs.


A Sharp Condition for Exact Support Recovery of with Orthogonal Matching
  Pursuit

  Support recovery of sparse signals from noisy measurements with orthogonal
matching pursuit (OMP) has been extensively studied. In this paper, we show
that for any $K$-sparse signal $\x$, if a sensing matrix $\A$ satisfies the
restricted isometry property (RIP) with restricted isometry constant (RIC)
$\delta_{K+1} < 1/\sqrt {K+1}$, then under some constraints on the minimum
magnitude of nonzero elements of $\x$, OMP exactly recovers the support of $\x$
from its measurements $\y=\A\x+\v$ in $K$ iterations, where $\v$ is a noise
vector that is $\ell_2$ or $\ell_{\infty}$ bounded. This sufficient condition
is sharp in terms of $\delta_{K+1}$ since for any given positive integer $K$
and any $1/\sqrt{K+1}\leq \delta<1$, there always exists a matrix $\A$
satisfying the RIP with $\delta_{K+1}=\delta$ for which OMP fails to recover a
$K$-sparse signal $\x$ in $K$ iterations. Also, our constraints on the minimum
magnitude of nonzero elements of $\x$ are weaker than existing ones. Moreover,
we propose worst-case necessary conditions for the exact support recovery of
$\x$, characterized by the minimum magnitude of the nonzero elements of $\x$.


Visualizing Large-scale and High-dimensional Data

  We study the problem of visualizing large-scale and high-dimensional data in
a low-dimensional (typically 2D or 3D) space. Much success has been reported
recently by techniques that first compute a similarity structure of the data
points and then project them into a low-dimensional space with the structure
preserved. These two steps suffer from considerable computational costs,
preventing the state-of-the-art methods such as the t-SNE from scaling to
large-scale and high-dimensional data (e.g., millions of data points and
hundreds of dimensions). We propose the LargeVis, a technique that first
constructs an accurately approximated K-nearest neighbor graph from the data
and then layouts the graph in the low-dimensional space. Comparing to t-SNE,
LargeVis significantly reduces the computational cost of the graph construction
step and employs a principled probabilistic model for the visualization step,
the objective of which can be effectively optimized through asynchronous
stochastic gradient descent with a linear time complexity. The whole procedure
thus easily scales to millions of high-dimensional data points. Experimental
results on real-world data sets demonstrate that the LargeVis outperforms the
state-of-the-art methods in both efficiency and effectiveness. The
hyper-parameters of LargeVis are also much more stable over different data
sets.


PTE: Predictive Text Embedding through Large-scale Heterogeneous Text
  Networks

  Unsupervised text embedding methods, such as Skip-gram and Paragraph Vector,
have been attracting increasing attention due to their simplicity, scalability,
and effectiveness. However, comparing to sophisticated deep learning
architectures such as convolutional neural networks, these methods usually
yield inferior results when applied to particular machine learning tasks. One
possible reason is that these text embedding methods learn the representation
of text in a fully unsupervised way, without leveraging the labeled information
available for the task. Although the low dimensional representations learned
are applicable to many different tasks, they are not particularly tuned for any
task. In this paper, we fill this gap by proposing a semi-supervised
representation learning method for text data, which we call the
\textit{predictive text embedding} (PTE). Predictive text embedding utilizes
both labeled and unlabeled data to learn the embedding of text. The labeled
information and different levels of word co-occurrence information are first
represented as a large-scale heterogeneous text network, which is then embedded
into a low dimensional space through a principled and efficient algorithm. This
low dimensional embedding not only preserves the semantic closeness of words
and documents, but also has a strong predictive power for the particular task.
Compared to recent supervised approaches based on convolutional neural
networks, predictive text embedding is comparable or more effective, much more
efficient, and has fewer parameters to tune.


Less is More: Learning Prominent and Diverse Topics for Data
  Summarization

  Statistical topic models efficiently facilitate the exploration of
large-scale data sets. Many models have been developed and broadly used to
summarize the semantic structure in news, science, social media, and digital
humanities. However, a common and practical objective in data exploration tasks
is not to enumerate all existing topics, but to quickly extract representative
ones that broadly cover the content of the corpus, i.e., a few topics that
serve as a good summary of the data. Most existing topic models fit exactly the
same number of topics as a user specifies, which have imposed an unnecessary
burden to the users who have limited prior knowledge. We instead propose new
models that are able to learn fewer but more representative topics for the
purpose of data summarization. We propose a reinforced random walk that allows
prominent topics to absorb tokens from similar and smaller topics, thus
enhances the diversity among the top topics extracted. With this reinforced
random walk as a general process embedded in classical topic models, we obtain
\textit{diverse topic models} that are able to extract the most prominent and
diverse topics from data. The inference procedures of these diverse topic
models remain as simple and efficient as the classical models. Experimental
results demonstrate that the diverse topic models not only discover topics that
better summarize the data, but also require minimal prior knowledge of the
users.


Design of Near Infrared Sky Brightness Monitor and Test Running at Ngari
  Observatory in Tibet

  Tibet is known as the third pole of the earth, as high as the South Pole and
North Pole. The Ngari (Ali) observatory in Tibet has the advantage of plenty of
photometric night, low precipitable water vapor, high transmittance, good
seeing. It is a good site, and promising to be one of the best place for
infrared and submillimeter observations in the world. However, there is no data
available for sky background brightness in such place, which restrict the
astronomical development of the sites. In the near infrared band of J, H, Ks, a
NIR sky brightness monitor (NISBM) is designed based on InGaAs photoelectric
diode. By using the method of chopper modulation and digital lock-in amplifier
processing, the SNR (Signal Noise Ratio), detectivity and the data acquisition
speed of the device is greatly improved. For each band of J, H, Ks, an
independent instrument is designed and calibrated in laboratory. The NISBM has
been installed in Ngari observatory in July of 2017 and obtained the first data
of NIR sky brightness at Ngari observatory.


Quantum key distribution protocols using entangled state

  We present three quantum key distribution protocols using entangled state. In
the first two protocols, all Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs are used to
distribute a secret key except those chosen for eavesdropping check, because
the communication parties measure each of their particles in an invariable
measuring basis. The first protocol is based on the ideal of qubit transmission
in blocks. Although it need quantum memory, its theoretic efficiency
approximates to 100%. The second protocol does not need quantum memory and its
efficiency for qubits can achieve 100%. In the third protocol, we present a
controlled quantum key distribution using three-particle entangled state to
solve a special cryptographic task. Only with the controller's permission could
the communication parties establish their sharing key and the sharing key is
secret to the controller. We also analyze the security and the efficiency of
the present protocols.


Efficient multiparty quantum secret sharing of secure direct
  communication

  In this paper, we present an (n, n) threshold quantum secret sharing scheme
of secure direct communication using Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state. The
present scheme is efficient in that all the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states
used in the quantum secret sharing scheme are used to generate shared secret
messages except those chosen for checking eavesdropper. In our scheme, the
measuring basis of communication parties is invariable and the classical
information used to check eavesdropping needs only the results of measurements
of the communication parties. Another nice feature of our scheme is that the
sender transmit her secret messages to the receivers directly and the receivers
recover the sender's secret by combining their results, different from the QSS
scheme whose object is essentially to allow a sender to establish a shared key
with the receivers. This feature of our scheme is similar to that of quantum
secret direct communication.


Multiparty controlled quantum secret direct communication using
  Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state

  Base on the idea of dense coding of three-photon entangled state and qubit
transmission in blocks, we present a multiparty controlled quantum secret
direct communication scheme using Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state. In the
present scheme, the sender transmits her three bits of secret message to the
receiver directly and the secret message can only be recovered by the receiver
under the permission of all the controllers. All three-photon entangled states
are used to transmit the secret messages except those chosen for eavesdropping
check and the present scheme has a high source capacity because
Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state forms a large Hilbert space.


Quantum secure communication scheme with W state

  Recently, Cao et al. proposed a new quantum secure direct communication
scheme using W state. In their scheme, the error rate introduced by an
eavesdropper who takes intercept-resend attack, is only 8.3%. Actually, their
scheme is just a quantum key distribution scheme because the communication
parties first create a shared key and then encrypt the secret message using
one-time pad. We then present a quantum secure communication scheme using
three-qubit W state. In our scheme, the error rate is raised to 25% and it is
not necessary for the present scheme to use alternative measurement or Bell
basis measurement. We also show our scheme is unconditionally secure.


Quantum secure communication protocols based on entanglement swapping

  We present a quantum secure direct communication protocol and a multiparty
quantum secret sharing protocol based on Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs and
entanglement swapping. The present quantum secure direct communication protocol
makes use of the ideal of block transmission. We also point out that the sender
can encode his or her secret message without ensuring the security of the
quantum channel firstly. In the multiparty quantum secret sharing protocol, the
communication parties adopt checking mode or encoding mode with a certain
probability. It is not necessary for the protocol to perform local unitary
operation. In both the protocols, one party transmits only one photon for each
Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pair to another party and the security for the
transmitting photons is ensured by selecting Z-basis or X-basis randomly to
measure the sampling photons.


Quantum broadcast communication

  Broadcast encryption allows the sender to securely distribute his/her secret
to a dynamically changing group of users over a broadcast channel. In this
paper, we just consider a simple broadcast communication task in quantum
scenario, which the central party broadcasts his secret to multi-receiver via
quantum channel. We present three quantum broadcast communication schemes. The
first scheme utilizes entanglement swapping and Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger
state to realize a task that the central party broadcasts his secret to a group
of receivers who share a group key with him. In the second scheme, based on
dense coding, the central party broadcasts the secret to multi-receiver who
share each of their authentication key with him. The third scheme is a quantum
broadcast communication scheme with quantum encryption, which the central party
can broadcast the secret to any subset of the legal receivers.


Semiquantum secret sharing using two-particle entangled state

  Recently, Boyer et al. presented a novel semiquantum key distribution
protocol [M. Boyer, D. Kenigsberg, and T. Mor, Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 140501
(2007)], in which quantum Alice shares a secret key with classical Bob. Li et
al. proposed two semiquantum secret sharing protocols [Q. Li, W. H. Chan, and
D. Y. Long, Phys. Rev. A 82, 022303 (2010)] by using maximally entangled
Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states. In this paper, we present a semiquantum
secret sharing protocol by using two-particle entangled states in which quantum
Alice shares a secret key with two classical parties, Bob and Charlie.
Classical Bob and Charlie are restricted to performing measurement in the
computational basis, preparing a particle in the computational basis, or
reflecting the particles. None of them can acquire the secret unless they
collaborate. We also show the protocol is secure against eavesdropping.


Generation of nondegenerate narrow-band photon pairs for hybrid quantum
  network

  In a hybrid quantum network, linking two kinds of quantum nodes through
photonic channels requires excellent matching of central frequency and
bandwidth between both nodes and their interfacing photons. However,
pre-existing photon sources can not fulfill this requirement. Using a novel
conjoined double-cavity strategy, we report the generation of nondegenerate
narrow-band photon pairs by cavity-enhanced spontaneous parametric
down-conversion. The central frequencies and bandwidths of the signal and idler
photons are independently set to match with trapped ions and solid-state
quantum memories. With this source we achieve the bandwidths and central
frequencies of 4 MHz at 935 nm and 5 MHz at 880 nm for the signal and idler
photons respectively, with a normalized spectrum brightness of 4.9/s/MHz/mW.
Due to the ability of being independently locked to two different wavelenghts,
the conjoined double-cavity is universally suitable for hybrid quantum network
consisting of various quantum nodes.


Novel voltage signal at proximity effect induced superconducting
  transition temperature in gold nanowires

  We observed a novel voltage peak in the proximity effect induced
superconducting gold (Au) nanowire while cooling the sample through the
superconducting transition temperature. The voltage peak turned into dip in the
warming process. The voltage peak (or dip) was found to be closely related to
the emergence (vanishing) of the proximity induced superconductivity in the Au
nanowire. The amplitude of the voltage signal depends on the temperature
scanning rate and it cannot be detected when the temperature is changed slower
than 0.03 K/min. This transient feature suggests the non-equilibrium property
of the effect. The voltage peak could be understood by Ginzburg-Landau model as
a combined result of the emergence of Cooper pairs with relatively lower free
energy in W contact and the non-equilibrium diffusion of Cooper pairs and
quasiparticles.


Anomalous quantum Griffiths singularity in ultrathin crystalline lead
  films

  We study the magnetic field induced superconductor-metal transition (SMT) in
ultrathin crystalline Pb films. By performing ultralow temperature transport
measurement, the divergent critical exponent as an indication of quantum
Griffiths singularity (QGS) is observed when approaching zero temperature
quantum critical point. Distinctively, the phase boundary of SMT exhibits an
anomalous behavior in low temperature regime that the onset critical field
decreases with decreasing temperatures, which distinguishes our observation
from earlier reports of QGS in various two-dimensional superconductors. We
demonstrate that this observed anomalous phase boundary has its origin from the
superconducting fluctuations in ultrathin Pb films. Our findings reveal a novel
aspect of the QGS of SMT in two-dimentional superconducting systems with
anomalous phase boundary.


Energy efficient prediction clustering algorithm for multilevel
  heterogeneous wireless sensor networks

  In designing wireless sensor networks, it is important to reduce energy
dissipation and prolong network lifetime. In this paper, a new model with
energy and monitored objects heterogeneity is proposed for heterogeneous
wireless sensor networks. We put forward an energy-efficient prediction
clustering algorithm, which is adaptive to the heterogeneous model. This
algorithm enables the nodes to select the cluster head according to factors
such as energy and communication cost, thus the nodes with higher residual
energy have higher probability to become a cluster head than those with lower
residual energy, so that the network energy can be dissipated uniformly. In
order to reduce energy consumption when broadcasting in clustering phase and
prolong network lifetime, an energy consumption prediction model is established
for regular data acquisition nodes. Simulation results show that compared with
current clustering algorithms, this algorithm can achieve longer sensor network
lifetime, higher energy efficiency and superior network monitoring quality.


Waiting Time Distribution of Quantum Electronic Transport in Transient
  Regime

  Waiting time is an important transport quantity that is complementary to
average current and its fluctuation. So far all the studies of waiting time
distribution (WTD) are limited to steady state transport (either dc or ac). In
this work, we present a theory to calculate WTD for coherent electronic systems
in transient regime. We express the generating function of full counting
statistics using Keldysh non-equilibrium Green's functions formalism. Our
analysis goes beyond the wideband approximation and is suitable for first
principles calculation on realistic systems. Analytic solution has been
obtained for short and long time behaviors of waiting times. At short times,
the WTD shows a linear dependence on the waiting time while in the long time
limit, WTD follows Poisson distribution. We have applied this theory to a
quantum dot connected by two leads and calculated cumulants of transferred
charge as well as WTD in the transient regime. We have demonstrated how to
relate WTD to experimental measured data.


Exact Hybrid Covariance Thresholding for Joint Graphical Lasso

  This paper considers the problem of estimating multiple related Gaussian
graphical models from a $p$-dimensional dataset consisting of different
classes. Our work is based upon the formulation of this problem as group
graphical lasso. This paper proposes a novel hybrid covariance thresholding
algorithm that can effectively identify zero entries in the precision matrices
and split a large joint graphical lasso problem into small subproblems. Our
hybrid covariance thresholding method is superior to existing uniform
thresholding methods in that our method can split the precision matrix of each
individual class using different partition schemes and thus split group
graphical lasso into much smaller subproblems, each of which can be solved very
fast. In addition, this paper establishes necessary and sufficient conditions
for our hybrid covariance thresholding algorithm. The superior performance of
our thresholding method is thoroughly analyzed and illustrated by a few
experiments on simulated data and real gene expression data.


New quantum codes from dual-containing cyclic codes over finite rings

  Let $R=\mathbb{F}_{2^{m}}+u\mathbb{F}_{2^{m}}+\cdots+u^{k}\mathbb{F}_{2^{m}}$
, where $\mathbb{F}_{2^{m}}$ is a finite field with $2^{m}$ elements, $m$ is a
positive integer, $u$ is an indeterminate with $u^{k+1}=0.$ In this paper, we
propose the constructions of two new families of quantum codes obtained from
dual-containing cyclic codes of odd length over $R$. A new Gray map over $R$ is
defined and a sufficient and necessary condition for the existence of
dual-containing cyclic codes over $R$ is given. A new family of $2^{m}$-ary
quantum codes is obtained via the Gray map and the Calderbank-Shor-Steane
construction from dual-containing cyclic codes over $R.$ Furthermore, a new
family of binary quantum codes is obtained via the Gray map, the trace map and
the Calderbank-Shor-Steane construction from dual-containing cyclic codes over
$R.$


Runge-Kutta discontinuous Galerkin methods for the special relativistic
  magnetohydrodynamics

  This paper develops $P^K$-based non-central and central Runge-Kutta
discontinuous Galerkin (DG) methods with WENO limiter for the one- and
two-dimensional special relativistic magnetohydrodynamical (RMHD) equations,
$K=1,2,3$. The non-central DG methods are locally divergence-free, while the
central DG are "exactly" divergence-free but have to find two approximate
solutions defined on mutually dual meshes. The adaptive WENO limiter first
identifies the "troubled" cells by using a modified TVB minmod function, and
then uses the WENO technique to locally reconstruct a new polynomial of degree
$(2K+1)$ inside the "troubled" cells replacing the DG solution by based on the
cell average values of the DG solutions in the neighboring cells as well as the
original cell averages of the "troubled" cells. The WENO limiting procedure
does not destroy the locally or "exactly" divergence-free property of magnetic
field and is only employed for finite "troubled" cells so that the
computational cost can be as little as possible. Several test problems in one
and two dimensions are solved by using our non-central and central Runge-Kutta
DG methods with WENO limiter. The numerical results demonstrate that our
methods are stable, accurate, and robust in resolving complex wave structures.


Short time dynamics of molecular junctions after projective measurement

  In this work, we study the short time dynamics of a molecular junction
described by Anderson-Holstein model using full-counting statistics after
projective measurement. The coupling between the central quantum dot (QD) and
two leads was turned on at remote past and the system is evolved to steady
state at time $t=0$, when we perform the projective measurement in one of the
lead. Generating function for the charge transfer is expressed as a Fredholm
determinant in terms of Keldysh nonequilibrium Green's function in the time
domain. It is found that the current is not constant at short times indicating
that the measurement does perturb the system. We numerically compare the
current behaviors after the projective measurement with those in the transient
regime where the subsystems are connected at $t=0$. The universal scaling for
high-order cumulants is observed for the case with zero QD occupation due to
the unidirectional transport at short times. The influences of electron-phonon
interaction on short time dynamics of electric current, shot noise and
differential conductance are analyzed.


Economic Dispatch Considering Spatial and Temporal Correlations of
  Multiple Renewable Power Plants

  The correlations of multiple renewable power plants (RPPs) should be fully
considered in the power system with very high penetration renewable power
integration. This paper models the uncertainties, spatial correlation of
multiple RPPs based on Copula theory and actual probability historical
histograms by one-dimension distributions for economic dispatch (ED) problem.
An efficient dynamic renewable power scenario generation method based on Gibbs
sampling is proposed to generate renewable power scenarios considering the
uncertainties, spatial correlation and variability (temporal correlation) of
multiple RPPs, in which the sampling space complexity do not increase with the
number of RPPs. Distribution-based and scenario-based methods are proposed and
compared to solve the real-time ED problem with multiple RPPs. Results show
that the proposed dynamic scenario generation method is much more consist with
the actual renewable power. The proposed ED methods show better understanding
for the uncertainties, spatial and temporal correlations of renewable power and
more economical compared with the traditional ones.


