Multiparty simultaneous quantum identity authentication based on
  entanglement swapping

  We present a multiparty simultaneous quantum identity authentication protocol
based on entanglement swapping. In our protocol, the multi-user can be
authenticated by a trusted third party simultaneously.


Rota-Baxter Coalgebras

  We introduce the notion of Rota-Baxter coalgebra which can be viewed as the
dual notion of Rota-Baxter algebra. We provide various concrete examples and
establish some basic properties of this new object.


Frobenius-Perron Theory of Endofunctors

  We introduce the Frobenius-Perron dimension of an endofunctor of a k-linear
category and provide some applications.


Two-dimensional photonic crystal polarizer

  A novel polarizer made from two-dimensional photonic bandgap materials was
demonstrated theoretically. This polarizer is fundamentally different from the
conventinal ones. It can function in a wide frequency range with high
performance and the size can be made very compact, which renders it useful as a
micropolarizer in microoptics.


LVreID: Person Re-Identification with Long Sequence Videos

  This paper mainly establishes a large-scale Long sequence Video database for
person re-IDentification (LVreID).


Emergent Geometry of Matrix Models with Even Couplings

  We show that to the modified GUE partition function with even coupling
introduced by Dubrovin, Liu, Yang and Zhang, one can associate $n$-point
correlation functions in arbitrary genera which satisfy Eynard-Orantin
topological recursions. Furthermore, these $n$-point functions are related to
intersection numbers on the Deligne-Mumford moduli spaces.


Oscillatory Magneto-Thermopower and Resonant Phonon Drag in a
  High-Mobility 2D Electron Gas

  Experimental and theoretical evidence is presented for new low-magnetic-field
($B<5$ kG) 1/B-oscillations in the thermoelectric power of a high-mobility
GaAs/AlGaAs two-dimensional (2D) electron gas. The oscillations result from
inter-Landau-Level resonances of acoustic phonons carrying a momentum equal to
twice the Fermi wavenumber at $B = 0$. Numerical calculations show that both 3D
and 2D phonons can contribute to this effect.


Semiquantum key distribution using entangled states

  Recently, Boyer et al. presented a novel semiquantum key distribution
protocol [M. Boyer, D. Kenigsberg, and T. Mor, Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 140501
(2007)], by using four quantum states, each of which is randomly prepared by Z
basis or X basis. Here we present a semiquantum key distribution protocol by
using entangled states in which quantum Alice shares a secret key with
classical Bob. We also show the protocol is secure against eavesdropping.


Parallel SGD: When does averaging help?

  Consider a number of workers running SGD independently on the same pool of
data and averaging the models every once in a while -- a common but not well
understood practice. We study model averaging as a variance-reducing mechanism
and describe two ways in which the frequency of averaging affects convergence.
For convex objectives, we show the benefit of frequent averaging depends on the
gradient variance envelope. For non-convex objectives, we illustrate that this
benefit depends on the presence of multiple globally optimal points. We
complement our findings with multicore experiments on both synthetic and real
data.


Geometric modeling of aerosol surface roughness and numerical simulation
  of its impact on aerosol optical properties

  A stochastic method is introduced for geometric modeling aerosol surface
roughness with random field and discrete differential geometry theory. Optical
scattering properties are computed for randomly oriented spheroidal particles
with uniformly random surface roughness. Invariant imbedding T-Matrix and
geometric optics method are applied to compute light scattering properties of
aerosol particles covered from Rayleigh to geometric optics region. We
simulatied scattering phase matrix of model particles, better performace is
obtained than smooth particles. We aslo introduce introduce entropy and
relative entropy as measures to distinguish the optical scattering similarities
between different particles.


Combinatorial construction of Gelfand-Tsetlin modules for
  $\mathfrak{gl}_n$

  We propose a new effective method of constructing explicitly Gelfand -Tsetlin
modules for $\mathfrak{gl}_n$. We obtain a large family of simple modules that
have a basis consisting of Gelfand-Tsetlin tableaux, the action of the Lie
algebra is given by the Gelfand-Tsetlin formulas and with all Gelfand-Tsetlin
multiplicities equal $1$. As an application of our construction we prove
necessary and sufficient condition for the Gelfand and Graev's continuation
construction to define a module which was conjectured by Lemire and Patera.


Irreducible subquotients of generic gelfand-tsetlin modules over
  uq(gl(n))

  We provide a classification and explicit bases of tableaux of all irreducible
subquotients of generic Gelfand-Tsetlin modules over Uq(gl(n)) where q
different 1 and -1.


Multiparameter quantum Pfaffians

  The multiparameter quantum Pfaffian of the $(p, \lambda)$-quantum group is
introduced and studied together with the quantum determinant, and an identity
relating the two invariants is given. Generalization to the multiparameter
hyper-Pfaffian and relationship with the quantum minors are also considered.


Generalized Verma modules over U_q(sl_n(C))

  We construct realizations of quantum generalized Verma modules for
U_q(sl_n(C)) by quan- tum differential operators. Taking the classical limit q
! 1 provides a realization of classical generalized Verma modules for sl_n(C)
by differential operators.


Quantum discord and its asymptotic behaviors in a time-dependent XY spin
  chain

  We study the dynamics and the asymptotic behaviors of quantum discord in a
one-dimensional XY model coupled through time-dependent nearest-neighbor
interactions and in the presence of a time-dependent magnetic field. We find
that the time evolution of the nearest-neighbor quantum discord in this system
shows non-ergodic behaviors but is asymptotic to its steady value at the
long-time limit. The zero-temperature asymptotic behaviors of quantum discord
is only determined by the ratio between the coupling parameter and magnetic
field, whereas the finite-temperature asymptotic behaviors determined by both
of them. These asymptotic behaviors are sensitive not only to the initial
values of the coupling parameter and magnetic field, but also to the final
values. It is interesting to note that quantum discords are more robust than
entanglement against the effect of temperature. We also find particular
parameter regimes, where the nearest-neighbor quantum discord is enhanced
significantly.


Transverse electric current induced by optically injected spin current
  in cross-shaped InGaAs/InAlAs system

  We examine electric response of a linearly polarized light normally shed on a
cross-shaped quasi 2-dimensional InGaAs/InAlAs system with structure inversion
asymmetry. The photo-excited conduction electrons carry a pure spin current
with in-plane spin polarization due to the Rashba spin-orbit interaction. We
use Landauer-B\"{u}ttiker formalism to show that this spin current induces two
inward or outward transverse charge currents, which are observable in
experiments. This effect may serve as an experimental probe of certain types of
spin current.


Magnetophoresis of nonmagnetic particles in ferrofluids

  Ferrofluids containing nonmagnetic particles are called inverse ferrofluids.
On the basis of the Ewald-Kornfeld formulation and the Maxwell-Garnett theory,
we theoretically investigate the magnetophoretic force exerting on the
nonmagnetic particles in inverse ferrofluids due to the presence of a
nonuniform magnetic field, by taking into account the structural transition and
long-range interaction. We numerically demonstrate that the force can be
adjusted by choosing appropriate lattices, volume fractions, geometric shapes,
and conductivities of the nonmagnetic particles, as well as frequencies of
external magnetic fields.


Experimental Test of the Kochen-Specker Theorem for Single Qubits using
  Positive Operator-Valued Measures

  We present an experimental scheme for the implementation of arbitrary
generalized measurements, represented by positive-operator valued measures, on
the polarization of single photons, using linear optical devices. Further, we
experimentally test a Kochen-Specker theorem for single qubits using positive
operator-valued measures. Our experimental results for the first time disprove
non-contextual hidden-variable theories, even for single qubits.


Numerical simulation of Bell inequality's violation using optical
  transverse modes in multimode waveguides

  We numerically demonstrate that "mode-entangled states" based on the
transverse modes of classical optical fields in multimode waveguides violate
Bell's inequality. Numerically simulating the correlation measurement scheme of
Bell's inequality, we obtain the normalized correlation functions of the
intensity fluctuations for the two entangled classical fields. By using the
correlation functions, the maximum violations of Bell's inequality are
obtained. This implies that the two classical fields in the mode-entangled
states, although spatially separated, present a nonlocal correlation.


Quantum secure direct communication without using perfect quantum
  channel

  Most of the quantum secure direct communication protocol needs a
pre-established secure quantum channel. Only after insuring the security of
quantum channel, could the sender encode the secret message and send them to
the receiver through the secure channel. In this paper, we present a quantum
secure direct communication protocol using Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs. It is
not necessary for the present protocol to insure the security of quantum
channel before transmitting the secret message. In the present protocol, all
Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs are used to transmit the secret message except
those chosen for eavesdropping check.


Quantum signature scheme with single photons

  Quantum digital signature combines quantum theory with classical digital
signature. The main goal of this field is to take advantage of quantum effects
to provide unconditionally secure signature. We present a quantum signature
scheme with message recovery without using entangle effect. The most important
property of the proposed scheme is that it is not necessary for the scheme to
use Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states. The present scheme utilizes single
photons to achieve the aim of signature and verification. The security of the
scheme relies on the quantum one-time pad and quantum key distribution. The
efficiency analysis shows that the proposed scheme is an efficient scheme.


Quantum secure direct communication based on order rearrangement of
  single photons

  Based on the ideal of order rearrangement and block transmission of photons,
we present a quantum secure direct communication scheme using single photons.
The security of the present scheme is ensured by quantum no-cloning theory and
the secret transmitting order of photons. The present scheme is efficient in
that all of the polarized photons are used to transmit the sender's secret
message except those chosen for eavesdropping check. We also generalize this
scheme to a multiparty controlled quantum secret direct communication scheme
which the sender's secret message can only be recovered by the receiver under
the permission of all the controllers.


Quantum secure direct communication with pure entangled states

  We present a quantum secure direct communication protocol where the channels
are not maximally entangled states. The communication parties utilize decoy
photons to check eavesdropping. After ensuring the security of the quantum
channel, the sender encodes the secret message and transmits it to the receiver
by using Controlled-NOT operation and von Neumann measurement. The protocol is
simple and realizable with present technology. We also show the protocol is
secure for noisy quantum channel.


Holographic bound and protein linguistics

  The holographic bound in physics constrains the complexity of life. The
finite storage capability of information in the observable universe requires
the protein linguistics in the evolution of life. We find that the evolution of
genetic code determines the variance of amino acid frequencies and genomic GC
content among species. The elegant linguistic mechanism is confirmed by the
experimental observations based on all known entire proteomes.


The holographic principle and the language of genes

  We show that the holographic principle in quantum gravity imposes a strong
constraint on life. The degrees of freedom of an organism can be estimated
according to the theory of Boolean networks, which is constrained by the
entropy bound. Hence we can explain the languages in protein sequences or in
DNA sequences. The overall evolution of biological complexity can be
illustrated. And some general properties of protein length distributions can be
explained by a linguistic mechanism.


Prediction of genomic properties and classification of life by protein
  length distributions

  Much evolutionary information is stored in the fluctuations of protein length
distributions. The genome size and non-coding DNA content can be calculated
based only on the protein length distributions. So there is intrinsic
relationship between the coding DNA size and non-coding DNA size. According to
the correlations and quasi-periodicity of protein length distributions, we can
classify life into three domains. Strong evidences are found to support the
order in the structures of protein length distributions.


Quantum Quasi-Shuffle Algebras

  We establish some properties of quantum quasi-shuffle algebras. They include
the necessary and sufficient condition for the construction of the quantum
quasi-shuffle product, the universal property, and the commutativity condition.
As an application, we use the quantum quasi-shuffle product to construct a
linear basis of $T(V)$, for a special kind of Yang-Baxter algebras
$(V,m,\sigma)$.


Clustering with diversity

  We consider the {\em clustering with diversity} problem: given a set of
colored points in a metric space, partition them into clusters such that each
cluster has at least $\ell$ points, all of which have distinct colors.
  We give a 2-approximation to this problem for any $\ell$ when the objective
is to minimize the maximum radius of any cluster. We show that the
approximation ratio is optimal unless $\mathbf{P=NP}$, by providing a matching
lower bound. Several extensions to our algorithm have also been developed for
handling outliers. This problem is mainly motivated by applications in
privacy-preserving data publication.


Multiple chiral doublet candidate nucleus $^{105}$Rh in a relativistic
  mean-field approach

  Following the reports of two pairs of chiral doublet bands observed in
$^{105}$Rh, the adiabatic and configuration-fixed constrained triaxial
relativistic mean-field (RMF) calculations are performed to investigate their
triaxial deformations with the corresponding configuration and the possible
multiple chiral doublet (M$\chi$D) phenomenon. The existence of M$\chi$D
phenomenon in $^{105}$Rh is highly expected.


An optimal consensus tracking control algorithm for autonomous
  underwater vehicles with disturbances

  The optimal disturbance rejection control problem is considered for consensus
tracking systems affected by external persistent disturbances and noise.
Optimal estimated values of system states are obtained by recursive filtering
for the multiple autonomous underwater vehicles modeled to multi-agent systems
with Kalman filter. Then the feedforward-feedback optimal control law is
deduced by solving the Riccati equations and matrix equations. The existence
and uniqueness condition of feedforward-feedback optimal control law is
proposed and the optimal control law algorithm is carried out. Lastly,
simulations show the result is effectiveness with respect to external
persistent disturbances and noise.


Nearly Optimal Bounds for Orthogonal Least Squares

  In this paper, we study the orthogonal least squares (OLS) algorithm for
sparse recovery. On the one hand, we show that if the sampling matrix
$\mathbf{A}$ satisfies the restricted isometry property (RIP) of order $K + 1$
with isometry constant $$ \delta_{K + 1} < \frac{1}{\sqrt{K+1}}, $$ then OLS
exactly recovers the support of any $K$-sparse vector $\mathbf{x}$ from its
samples $\mathbf{y} = \mathbf{A} \mathbf{x}$ in $K$ iterations. On the other
hand, we show that OLS may not be able to recover the support of a $K$-sparse
vector $\mathbf{x}$ in $K$ iterations for some $K$ if $$ \delta_{K + 1} \geq
\frac{1}{\sqrt{K+\frac{1}{4}}}. $$


Quantum speed limit for a relativistic electron in the noncommutative
  phase space

  The influence of the noncommutativity on the average speed of a relativistic
electron interacting with a uniform magnetic field within the minimum evolution
time is investigated. We find that it is possible for the wave packet of the
electron to travel faster than the speed of light in vacuum because of the
noncommutativity. It suggests that due to the noncommutativity, Lorentz
invariance is violated in the relativistic quantum mechanics region.


On dynamics of quasi-graph maps

  In this paper, we study dynamics of maps on quasi-graphs characterizing their
invariant measures. In particular, we prove that every invariant measure of
quasi-graph map with zero topological entropy has discrete spectrum. We also
obtain an analog of Llibre-Misiurewicz's result relating positive topological
entropy with existence of topological horseshoes.
  By these results, Sarnak's M\"obius Disjointness Conjecture restricted to the
class of quasi-graph maps with zero topological entropy is reduced to already
known cases. We prove however, that answering the conjecture for all maps on
dendrites with zero topological entropy is equivalent to solving it for all
dynamical systems with zero topological entropy.


Quantum Howe duality and invariant polynomials

  We construct two examples of q-deformed classical Howe dual pairs (sl(2,C),
sl(2,C)) and (sl(2,C), sl(n,C)). Moreover, we obtain a noncommutative version
of the first fundamental theorem of classical invariant theory. Our approach to
these duality differs from the paper of Lehrer-Zhang-Zhang. Furthermore, we
solve the tensor product decomposition problem for Verma modules over
U_q(sl(2,C)) provided q is not a root of unity.


Sieve empirical likelihood ratio tests for nonparametric functions

  Generalized likelihood ratio statistics have been proposed in Fan, Zhang and
Zhang [Ann. Statist. 29 (2001) 153-193] as a generally applicable method for
testing nonparametric hypotheses about nonparametric functions. The likelihood
ratio statistics are constructed based on the assumption that the distributions
of stochastic errors are in a certain parametric family. We extend their work
to the case where the error distribution is completely unspecified via newly
proposed sieve empirical likelihood ratio (SELR) tests. The approach is also
applied to test conditional estimating equations on the distributions of
stochastic errors. It is shown that the proposed SELR statistics follow
asymptotically rescaled \chi^2-distributions, with the scale constants and the
degrees of freedom being independent of the nuisance parameters. This
demonstrates that the Wilks phenomenon observed in Fan, Zhang and Zhang [Ann.
Statist. 29 (2001) 153-193] continues to hold under more relaxed models and a
larger class of techniques. The asymptotic power of the proposed test is also
derived, which achieves the optimal rate for nonparametric hypothesis testing.
The proposed approach has two advantages over the generalized likelihood ratio
method: it requires one only to specify some conditional estimating equations
rather than the entire distribution of the stochastic error, and the procedure
adapts automatically to the unknown error distribution including
heteroscedasticity. A simulation study is conducted to evaluate our proposed
procedure empirically.


Unveiling the super-orbital modulation of LSI +61 303 in X-rays

  We found evidence for the super-orbital modulation in the X-ray emission of
LS I +61 303 from the longest monitoring date by the RXTE. The time evolution
of the modulated fraction in the orbital light curves can be well fitted with a
sinusoidal function having a super-orbital period of 1667 days. However, we
have found a 281.8+/-44.6 day shift between the super-orbital variability found
at radio frequencies and our X-ray data. We also find a super-orbital
modulation in the maximum count rate of the orbital light curves, compatible
with the former results, including the shift.


Ultrahigh Magnetic Fields Produced by Shearing Carbon Nanotubes

  In laboratories, ultrahigh magnetic fields are usually produced with very
large currents through superconducting, resistive or hybrid magnets, which
require extreme conditions, such as low temperature, huge cooling water or tens
of megawatts of power. In this work we report that when single walled carbon
nanotubes (SWNTs) are cut, there are magnetic moments at the shearing end of
SWNTs. The average magnetic moment is found to be 41.5+-9.8uB per carbon atom
in the end states with a width of 1 nm at temperature of 300.0K, suggesting
ultrahigh magnetic fields can be produced. The dangling sigma and pi bonds of
the carbon atoms at the shearing ends play important roles for this
unexpectedly high magnetic moments because the oxidation temperature of cut
SWNTs is found to be as low as 312 in dry air. Producing ultrahigh magnetic
field with SWNTs has the advantage of working at higher working temperature and
with low energy consumption, suggesting great potentials of applications.


Compressed Sensing SAR Imaging with Multilook Processing

  Multilook processing is a widely used speckle reduction approach in synthetic
aperture radar (SAR) imaging. Conventionally, it is achieved by incoherently
summing of some independent low-resolution images formulated from overlapping
subbands of the SAR signal. However, in the context of compressive sensing (CS)
SAR imaging, where the samples are collected at sub-Nyquist rate, the data
spectrum is highly aliased that hinders the direct application of the existing
multilook techniques. In this letter, we propose a new CS-SAR imaging method
that can realize multilook processing simultaneously during image
reconstruction. The main idea is to replace the SAR observation matrix by the
inverse of multilook procedures, which is then combined with random sampling
matrix to yield a multilook CS-SAR observation model. Then a joint sparse
regularization model, considering pixel dependency of subimages, is derived to
form multilook images. The suggested SAR imaging method can not only
reconstruct sparse scene efficiently below Nyquist rate, but is also able to
achieve a comparable reduction of speckles during reconstruction. Simulation
results are finally provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed
method.


Disorder induced quantized conductance with fractional value and
  universal conductance fluctuation in three-dimensional topological insulators

  We report a theoretical investigation on the conductance and its fluctuation
of three-dimensional topological insulators (3D TI) in $Bi_2Se_3$ and
$Sb_2Te_3$ in the presence of disorders. Extensive numerical simulations are
carried out. We find that in the diffusive regime the conductance is quantized
with fractional value. Importantly, the conductance fluctuation is also
quantized with a universal value. For 3D TI connected by two terminals, three
independent conductances $G_{zz}$, $G_{xx}$ and $G_{zx}$ are identified where z
is the normal direction of quintuple layer of 3D TI (see inset of Fig.1). The
quantized conductance are found to be $<G_{zz}>=1$, $<G_{xx}>=4/3$ and
$<G_{zx}>=6/5$ with corresponding quantized conductance fluctuation 0.54, 0.47,
and 0.50. The quantization of average conductance and its fluctuation can be
understood by theory of mode mixing. The experimental realization that can
observe the quantization of average conductance is discussed.


Quantum coherence across bosonic superconductor-anomalous
  metal-insulator transitions

  After decades of explorations, suffering from low critical temperature and
subtle nature, whether a metallic ground state exists in a two-dimensional
system beyond Anderson localization is still a mystery. Supremely, phase
coherence could be the key that unlocks its intriguing nature. This work
reveals how quantum phase coherence evolves across bosonic
superconductor-metal-insulator transitions via magneto-conductance quantum
oscillations in high-Tc superconducting films. A robust intervening anomalous
metallic state characterized by both resistance and oscillation amplitude
saturations in the low temperature regime is detected. By contrast, with
decreasing temperature the oscillation amplitude monotonically grows on the
superconducting side, but decreases at low temperatures on the insulating side.
It suggests that the saturation of phase coherence plays a prominent role in
the formation of this anomalous metallic state.


Forward-backward systems for expected utility maximization

  In this paper we deal with the utility maximization problem with a general
utility function. We derive a new approach in which we reduce the utility
maximization problem with general utility to the study of a fully-coupled
Forward-Backward Stochastic Differential Equation (FBSDE).


Explicit construction of irreducible modules for U_q(gl_n)

  We construct new families of U_q(gl_n)-modules by continuation from finite
dimensional representations. Each such module is associated with a
combinatorial object - admissible set of relations defined in \cite{FRZ}. More
precisely, we prove that any admissible set of relations leads to a family of
irreducible U_q(gl_n)-modules. Finite dimensional and generic modules are
particular cases of this construction.


A local equivariant index theorem for sub-signature operators

  In this paper, we prove a local equivariant index theorem for sub-signature
operators which generalizes the Zhang's index theorem for sub-signature
operators.


Nonlinear Feynman-Kac formulae for SPDEs with space-time noise

  We study a class of backward doubly stochastic differential equations
(BDSDEs) involving martingales with spatial parameters, and show that they
provide probabilistic interpretations (Feynman-Kac formulae) for certain
semilinear stochastic partial differential equations (SPDEs) with space-time
noise. As an application of the Feynman-Kac formulae, random periodic solutions
and stationary solutions to certain SPDEs are obtained.


A question of Norton-Sullivan in the analytic case

  In 1996, A. Norton and D. Sullivan asked the following question: If
$f:\mathbb{T}^2\rightarrow\mathbb{T}^2$ is a diffeomorphism,
$h:\mathbb{T}^2\rightarrow\mathbb{T}^2$ is a continuous map homotopic to the
identity, and $h f=T_{\rho} h$ where $\rho\in\mathbb{R}^2$ is a totally
irrational vector and $T_{\rho}:\mathbb{T}^2\rightarrow\mathbb{T}^2,\, z\mapsto
z+\rho$ is a translation, are there natural geometric conditions (e.g.
smoothness) on $f$ that force $h$ to be a homeomorphism? In [ J. Wang and Z.
Zhang, GAFA 2018 ], the first author and Z. Zhang gave a negative answer to the
above question in the $C^{\infty}$ category: In general, not even the infinite
smoothness condition can force $h$ to be a homeomorphism. In this article, we
give a negative answer in the $C^{\omega}$ category: We construct a
real-analytic conservative and minimal totally irrational pseudo-rotation of
$\mathbb{T}^2$ that is semi-conjugate to a translation but not conjugate to a
translation, which simultaneously answers a question raised in [ J. Wang and Z.
Zhang, GAFA 2018 ].


Fast Compressed Sensing SAR Imaging based on Approximated Observation

  In recent years, compressed sensing (CS) has been applied in the field of
synthetic aperture radar (SAR) imaging and shows great potential. The existing
models are, however, based on application of the sensing matrix acquired by the
exact observation functions. As a result, the corresponding reconstruction
algorithms are much more time consuming than traditional matched filter (MF)
based focusing methods, especially in high resolution and wide swath systems.
In this paper, we formulate a new CS-SAR imaging model based on the use of the
approximated SAR observation deducted from the inverse of focusing procedures.
We incorporate CS and MF within an sparse regularization framework that is then
solved by a fast iterative thresholding algorithm. The proposed model forms a
new CS-SAR imaging method that can be applied to high-quality and
high-resolution imaging under sub-Nyquist rate sampling, while saving the
computational cost substantially both in time and memory. Simulations and real
SAR data applications support that the proposed method can perform SAR imaging
effectively and efficiently under Nyquist rate, especially for large scale
applications.


Superconductivity in topologically nontrivial material Au2Pb

  The search for nontrivial superconductivity in novel quantum materials is
currently a most attractive topic in condensed matter physics and material
science. The experimental studies have progressed quickly over the past couple
of years. In this article, we report systematic studies of superconductivity in
Au2Pb single crystals. The bulk superconductivity (onset transition
temperature, Tconset= 1.3 K) of Au2Pb is characterized by both transport and
diamagnetic measurements, where the upper critical field Hc2 shows unusual
quasi-linear temperature dependence. The superconducting gap is revealed by
point contact measurement with gold tip. However, when using tungsten (W) tip,
which is much harder, the superconducting gap probed is largely enhanced as
demonstrated by the increases of both Tconset and upper critical field (Hc2).
This can be interpreted as a result of increase in density of states under
external anisotropic stress imposed by the tip, as revealed by first-principles
calculations. Furthermore, novel phase winding of the pseudospin texture along
k-space loops around the Fermi energy is uncovered from the calculations,
indicating that the observed superconductivity in Au2Pb may have nontrivial
topology.


Collaboration in an Open Data eScience: A Case Study of Sloan Digital
  Sky Survey

  Current science and technology has produced more and more publically
accessible scientific data. However, little is known about how the open data
trend impacts a scientific community, specifically in terms of its
collaboration behaviors. This paper aims to enhance our understanding of the
dynamics of scientific collaboration in the open data eScience environment via
a case study of co-author networks of an active and highly cited open data
project, called Sloan Digital Sky Survey. We visualized the co-authoring
networks and measured their properties over time at three levels: author,
institution, and country levels. We compared these measurements to a random
network model and also compared results across the three levels. The study
found that 1) the collaboration networks of the SDSS community transformed from
random networks to small-world networks; 2) the number of author-level
collaboration instances has not changed much over time, while the number of
collaboration instances at the other two levels has increased over time; 3)
pairwise institutional collaboration become common in recent years. The open
data trend may have both positive and negative impacts on scientific
collaboration.


Semiquantum secret sharing using two-particle entangled state

  Recently, Boyer et al. presented a novel semiquantum key distribution
protocol [M. Boyer, D. Kenigsberg, and T. Mor, Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 140501
(2007)], in which quantum Alice shares a secret key with classical Bob. Li et
al. proposed two semiquantum secret sharing protocols [Q. Li, W. H. Chan, and
D. Y. Long, Phys. Rev. A 82, 022303 (2010)] by using maximally entangled
Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states. In this paper, we present a semiquantum
secret sharing protocol by using two-particle entangled states in which quantum
Alice shares a secret key with two classical parties, Bob and Charlie.
Classical Bob and Charlie are restricted to performing measurement in the
computational basis, preparing a particle in the computational basis, or
reflecting the particles. None of them can acquire the secret unless they
collaborate. We also show the protocol is secure against eavesdropping.


Exact Recovery of Sparse Signals via Orthogonal Matching Pursuit: How
  Many Iterations Do We Need?

  Orthogonal matching pursuit (OMP) is a greedy algorithm widely used for the
recovery of sparse signals from compressed measurements. In this paper, we
analyze the number of iterations required for the OMP algorithm to perform
exact recovery of sparse signals. Our analysis shows that OMP can accurately
recover all $K$-sparse signals within $\lceil 2.8 K \rceil$ iterations when the
measurement matrix satisfies a restricted isometry property (RIP). Our result
improves upon the recent result of Zhang and also bridges the gap between
Zhang's result and the fundamental limit of OMP at which exact recovery of
$K$-sparse signals cannot be uniformly guaranteed.


