An Improved Procedure for Selecting the Profiles of Perfectly Matched
  Layers

  The perfectly matched layers (PMLs), as a boundary termination over an
unbounded spatial domain, are widely used in numerical simulations of wave
propagation problems. Given a set of discretization parameters, a procedure to
select the PML profiles based on minimizing the discrete reflectivity is
established for frequency domain simulations. We, by extending the function
class and adopting a direct search method, improve the former procedure for
traveling waves.


The conical Kähler-Ricci flow with weak initial data on Fano manifold

  In this paper, we prove the long-time existence and uniqueness of the conical
K\"ahler-Ricci flow with weak initial data which admits $L^{p}$ density for
some $p>1$ on Fano manifold. Furthermore, we study the convergence behavior of
this kind of flow.


Cusp Kähler-Ricci flow on compact Kähler manifold

  In this paper, by limiting twisted conical K\"ahler-Ricci flows, we prove the
long-time existence and uniqueness of cusp K\"ahler-Ricci flow on compact
K\"ahler manifold $M$ which carries a smooth hypersurface $D$ such that the
twisted canonical bundle $K_M+D$ is ample. Furthermore, we prove that this flow
converge to a unique cusp K\"ahler-Einstein metric.


Gradient Descent based Optimization Algorithms for Deep Learning Models
  Training

  In this paper, we aim at providing an introduction to the gradient descent
based optimization algorithms for learning deep neural network models. Deep
learning models involving multiple nonlinear projection layers are very
challenging to train. Nowadays, most of the deep learning model training still
relies on the back propagation algorithm actually. In back propagation, the
model variables will be updated iteratively until convergence with gradient
descent based optimization algorithms. Besides the conventional vanilla
gradient descent algorithm, many gradient descent variants have also been
proposed in recent years to improve the learning performance, including
Momentum, Adagrad, Adam, Gadam, etc., which will all be introduced in this
paper respectively.


The conical Kähler-Ricci flow on Fano manifolds

  In this paper, we study the long-term behavior of the conical K\"ahler-Ricci
flow on Fano manifold $M$. First, based on our work of locally uniform
regularity for the twisted K\"ahler-Ricci flows, we obtain a long-time solution
to the conical K\"ahler-Ricci flow by limiting a sequence of these twisted
flows. Second, we study the uniform Perelman's estimates of the twisted
K\"ahler-Ricci flows. After that, we prove that the conical K\"ahler-Ricci flow
must converge to a conical K\"ahler-Einstein metric if there exists one.


The conical complex Monge-Ampère equations on Kähler manifolds

  In this paper, by providing the uniform gradient estimates for a sequence of
the approximating equations, we prove the existence, uniqueness and regularity
of the conical parabolic complex Monge-Amp\`ere equation with weak initial
data. As an application, we prove a regularity estimates, that is, any
$L^{\infty}$-solution of the conical complex Monge-Amp\`ere equation admits the
$C^{2,\alpha,\beta}$-regularity.


Intertwined Viral Marketing through Online Social Networks

  Traditional viral marketing problems aim at selecting a subset of seed users
for one single product to maximize its awareness in social networks. However,
in real scenarios, multiple products can be promoted in social networks at the
same time. At the product level, the relationships among these products can be
quite intertwined, e.g., competing, complementary and independent. In this
paper, we will study the "interTwined Influence Maximization" (i.e., TIM)
problem for one product that we target on in online social networks, where
multiple other competing/complementary/independent products are being promoted
simultaneously. The TIM problem is very challenging to solve due to (1) few
existing models can handle the intertwined diffusion procedure of multiple
products concurrently, and (2) optimal seed user selection for the target
product may depend on other products' marketing strategies a lot. To address
the TIM problem, a unified greedy framework TIER (interTwined Influence
EstimatoR) is proposed in this paper. Extensive experiments conducted on four
different types of real-world social networks demonstrate that TIER can
outperform all the comparison methods with significant advantages in solving
the TIM problem.


Learning Fully Convolutional Networks for Iterative Non-blind
  Deconvolution

  In this paper, we propose a fully convolutional networks for iterative
non-blind deconvolution We decompose the non-blind deconvolution problem into
image denoising and image deconvolution. We train a FCNN to remove noises in
the gradient domain and use the learned gradients to guide the image
deconvolution step. In contrast to the existing deep neural network based
methods, we iteratively deconvolve the blurred images in a multi-stage
framework. The proposed method is able to learn an adaptive image prior, which
keeps both local (details) and global (structures) information. Both
quantitative and qualitative evaluations on benchmark datasets demonstrate that
the proposed method performs favorably against state-of-the-art algorithms in
terms of quality and speed.


Gated Fusion Network for Single Image Dehazing

  In this paper, we propose an efficient algorithm to directly restore a clear
image from a hazy input. The proposed algorithm hinges on an end-to-end
trainable neural network that consists of an encoder and a decoder. The encoder
is exploited to capture the context of the derived input images, while the
decoder is employed to estimate the contribution of each input to the final
dehazed result using the learned representations attributed to the encoder. The
constructed network adopts a novel fusion-based strategy which derives three
inputs from an original hazy image by applying White Balance (WB), Contrast
Enhancing (CE), and Gamma Correction (GC). We compute pixel-wise confidence
maps based on the appearance differences between these different inputs to
blend the information of the derived inputs and preserve the regions with
pleasant visibility. The final dehazed image is yielded by gating the important
features of the derived inputs. To train the network, we introduce a
multi-scale approach such that the halo artifacts can be avoided. Extensive
experimental results on both synthetic and real-world images demonstrate that
the proposed algorithm performs favorably against the state-of-the-art
algorithms.


GADAM: Genetic-Evolutionary ADAM for Deep Neural Network Optimization

  Deep neural network learning can be formulated as a non-convex optimization
problem. Existing optimization algorithms, e.g., Adam, can learn the models
fast, but may get stuck in local optima easily. In this paper, we introduce a
novel optimization algorithm, namely GADAM (Genetic-Evolutionary Adam). GADAM
learns deep neural network models based on a number of unit models generations
by generations: it trains the unit models with Adam, and evolves them to the
new generations with genetic algorithm. We will show that GADAM can effectively
jump out of the local optima in the learning process to obtain better
solutions, and prove that GADAM can also achieve a very fast convergence.
Extensive experiments have been done on various benchmark datasets, and the
learning results will demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the GADAM
algorithm.


On Deep Ensemble Learning from a Function Approximation Perspective

  In this paper, we propose to provide a general ensemble learning framework
based on deep learning models. Given a group of unit models, the proposed deep
ensemble learning framework will effectively combine their learning results via
a multilayered ensemble model. In the case when the unit model mathematical
mappings are bounded, sigmoidal and discriminatory, we demonstrate that the
deep ensemble learning framework can achieve a universal approximation of any
functions from the input space to the output space. Meanwhile, to achieve such
a performance, the deep ensemble learning framework also impose a strict
constraint on the number of involved unit models. According to the theoretic
proof provided in this paper, given the input feature space of dimension d, the
required unit model number will be 2d, if the ensemble model involves one
single layer. Furthermore, as the ensemble component goes deeper, the number of
required unit model is proved to be lowered down exponentially.


Deep Loopy Neural Network Model for Graph Structured Data Representation
  Learning

  Existing deep learning models may encounter great challenges in handling
graph structured data. In this paper, we introduce a new deep learning model
for graph data specifically, namely the deep loopy neural network.
Significantly different from the previous deep models, inside the deep loopy
neural network, there exist a large number of loops created by the extensive
connections among nodes in the input graph data, which makes model learning an
infeasible task. To resolve such a problem, in this paper, we will introduce a
new learning algorithm for the deep loopy neural network specifically. Instead
of learning the model variables based on the original model, in the proposed
learning algorithm, errors will be back-propagated through the edges in a group
of extracted spanning trees. Extensive numerical experiments have been done on
several real-world graph datasets, and the experimental results demonstrate the
effectiveness of both the proposed model and the learning algorithm in handling
graph data.


Reconciled Polynomial Machine: A Unified Representation of Shallow and
  Deep Learning Models

  In this paper, we aim at introducing a new machine learning model, namely
reconciled polynomial machine, which can provide a unified representation of
existing shallow and deep machine learning models. Reconciled polynomial
machine predicts the output by computing the inner product of the feature
kernel function and variable reconciling function. Analysis of several concrete
models, including Linear Models, FM, MVM, Perceptron, MLP and Deep Neural
Networks, will be provided in this paper, which can all be reduced to the
reconciled polynomial machine representations. Detailed analysis of the
learning error by these models will also be illustrated in this paper based on
their reduced representations from the function approximation perspective.


GEN Model: An Alternative Approach to Deep Neural Network Models

  In this paper, we introduce an alternative approach, namely GEN (Genetic
Evolution Network) Model, to the deep learning models. Instead of building one
single deep model, GEN adopts a genetic-evolutionary learning strategy to build
a group of unit models generations by generations. Significantly different from
the wellknown representation learning models with extremely deep structures,
the unit models covered in GEN are of a much shallower architecture. In the
training process, from each generation, a subset of unit models will be
selected based on their performance to evolve and generate the child models in
the next generation. GEN has significant advantages compared with existing deep
representation learning models in terms of both learning effectiveness,
efficiency and interpretability of the learning process and learned results.
Extensive experiments have been done on diverse benchmark datasets, and the
experimental results have demonstrated the outstanding performance of GEN
compared with the state-of-the-art baseline methods in both effectiveness of
efficiency.


Ultra-low Hysteresis in Giant Magnetocaloric Mn1-xVxFe(P,Si,B) Compounds

  Large thermal hysteresis in the MnFe(P, Si, B) system hinders the heat
exchange rate and thus limits the magnetocaloric applications at high
frequencies. Substitution of Mn by V in Mn1-xVxFe0.95P0.593Si0.33B0.077 and
Mn1-xVxFe0.95P0.563Si0.36B0.077 alloys was found to reduce the thermal
hysteresis due to a decrease in the latent heat. Introducing V increases both
the field-induced transition temperature shift and the magnetic moment per
formula unit. Thus, a decease in the thermal hysteresis is obtained without
losing the giant magnetocaloric effect. In consequence, an ultralow hysteresis
(0.7 K) and a giant adiabatic temperature change of 2.3 K were achieved, which
makes these alloys promising candidates for commercial magnetic refrigerator
using permanent magnets.


CA3Net: Contextual-Attentional Attribute-Appearance Network for Person
  Re-Identification

  Person re-identification aims to identify the same pedestrian across
non-overlapping camera views. Deep learning techniques have been applied for
person re-identification recently, towards learning representation of
pedestrian appearance. This paper presents a novel Contextual-Attentional
Attribute-Appearance Network (CA3Net) for person re-identification. The CA3Net
simultaneously exploits the complementarity between semantic attributes and
visual appearance, the semantic context among attributes, visual attention on
attributes as well as spatial dependencies among body parts, leading to
discriminative and robust pedestrian representation. Specifically, an attribute
network within CA3Net is designed with an Attention-LSTM module. It
concentrates the network on latent image regions related to each attribute as
well as exploits the semantic context among attributes by a LSTM module. An
appearance network is developed to learn appearance features from the full
body, horizontal and vertical body parts of pedestrians with spatial
dependencies among body parts. The CA3Net jointly learns the attribute and
appearance features in a multi-task learning manner, generating comprehensive
representation of pedestrians. Extensive experiments on two challenging
benchmarks, i.e., Market-1501 and DukeMTMC-reID datasets, have demonstrated the
effectiveness of the proposed approach.


Stability of the conical Kähler-Ricci flows on Fano manifolds

  In this paper, we study the stability of the conical K\"ahler-Ricci flows on
Fano manifolds. That is, if there exists a conical K\"ahler-Einstein metric
with cone angle $2\pi\beta$ along the divisor, then for any $\beta'$
sufficiently close to $\beta$, the corresponding conical K\"ahler-Ricci flow
converges to a conical K\"ahler-Einstein metric with cone angle $2\pi\beta'$
along the divisor. Here, we only use the condition that the Log Mabuchi energy
is bounded from below. This is a weaker condition than the properness that we
have adopted to study the convergence before. As corollaries, we give parabolic
proofs of Donaldson's openness theorem and his existence conjecture for the
conical K\"ahler-Einstein metrics with small cone angles.


MDU-Net: Multi-scale Densely Connected U-Net for biomedical image
  segmentation

  Radiologist is "doctor's doctor", biomedical image segmentation plays a
central role in quantitative analysis, clinical diagnosis, and medical
intervention. In the light of the fully convolutional networks (FCN) and U-Net,
deep convolutional networks (DNNs) have made significant contributions in
biomedical image segmentation applications. In this paper, based on U-Net, we
propose MDUnet, a multi-scale densely connected U-net for biomedical image
segmentation. we propose three different multi-scale dense connections for U
shaped architectures encoder, decoder and across them. The highlights of our
architecture is directly fuses the neighboring different scale feature maps
from both higher layers and lower layers to strengthen feature propagation in
current layer. Which can largely improves the information flow encoder, decoder
and across them. Multi-scale dense connections, which means containing shorter
connections between layers close to the input and output, also makes much
deeper U-net possible. We adopt the optimal model based on the experiment and
propose a novel Multi-scale Dense U-Net (MDU-Net) architecture with
quantization. Which reduce overfitting in MDU-Net for better accuracy. We
evaluate our purpose model on the MICCAI 2015 Gland Segmentation dataset
(GlaS). The three multi-scale dense connections improve U-net performance by up
to 1.8% on test A and 3.5% on test B in the MICCAI Gland dataset. Meanwhile the
MDU-net with quantization achieves the superiority over U-Net performance by up
to 3% on test A and 4.1% on test B.


Twisted and conical Kähler-Ricci soliton on Fano manifolds

  In this paper, we consider the twisted K\"ahler-Ricci soliton, and show that
the existence of twisted K\"ahler-Ricci soliton with semi-positive twisting
form is closely related to the properness of some energy functionals. We also
consider the conical K\"ahler-Ricci soliton, and obtain some existence results.
In particular, under some assumptions on the divisor and $\alpha$-invariant, we
get the properness of the modified log K-energy and the existence of conical
K\"ahler-Ricci soliton with suitable cone angle.


Bandwidth broadening of X-ray free electron laser pulses with the
  natural gradient of planar undulator

  Besides the target to pursue the narrow bandwidth X-ray pulses, the large
bandwidth free-electron laser pulses are also strongly demanded to satisfy a
wide range of scientific user experiments. In this paper, using the
transversely tilt beam enabled by deflecting cavity and/or corrugated
structure, the potential of large bandwidth X-ray free-electron lasers
generation with the natural gradient of the planar undulator are discussed.
Simulations confirm the theoretical prediction, and X-ray free-electron laser
bandwidth indicates an increase of one order of magnitude with the optimized
parameters.


Learning to Hallucinate Face Images via Component Generation and
  Enhancement

  We propose a two-stage method for face hallucination. First, we generate
facial components of the input image using CNNs. These components represent the
basic facial structures. Second, we synthesize fine-grained facial structures
from high resolution training images. The details of these structures are
transferred into facial components for enhancement. Therefore, we generate
facial components to approximate ground truth global appearance in the first
stage and enhance them through recovering details in the second stage. The
experiments demonstrate that our method performs favorably against
state-of-the-art methods


Atomic inner-shell radiation seeded free-electron lasers

  In order to effectively improve the output quality of X-ray free electron
laser (XFEL), we theoretically propose an XFEL scheme seeded by atomic
inner-shell laser. As well known, an atomic inner-shell laser based on neutral
atoms and pumped by an XFEL has been experimentally demonstrated, which
produced sub-femtosecond X-ray pulses with increased temporal coherence. It
shows that, by using the inner-shell laser as a seed to modulate the electron
bunch, very stable and almost fully-coherent short-wavelength XFEL pulses can
be generated. The proposed scheme holds promising prospects in X-ray
wavelengths, and even shorter.


Predicting Social Links for New Users across Aligned Heterogeneous
  Social Networks

  Online social networks have gained great success in recent years and many of
them involve multiple kinds of nodes and complex relationships. Among these
relationships, social links among users are of great importance. Many existing
link prediction methods focus on predicting social links that will appear in
the future among all users based upon a snapshot of the social network. In
real-world social networks, many new users are joining in the service every
day. Predicting links for new users are more important. Different from
conventional link prediction problems, link prediction for new users are more
challenging due to the following reasons: (1) differences in information
distributions between new users and the existing active users (i.e., old
users); (2) lack of information from the new users in the network. We propose a
link prediction method called SCAN-PS (Supervised Cross Aligned Networks link
prediction with Personalized Sampling), to solve the link prediction problem
for new users with information transferred from both the existing active users
in the target network and other source networks through aligned accounts. We
proposed a within-target-network personalized sampling method to process the
existing active users' information in order to accommodate the differences in
information distributions before the intra-network knowledge transfer. SCAN-PS
can also exploit information in other source networks, where the user accounts
are aligned with the target network. In this way, SCAN-PS could solve the cold
start problem when information of these new users is total absent in the target
network.


Partial Network Alignment with Anchor Meta Path and Truncated Generic
  Stable Matching

  To enjoy more social network services, users nowadays are usually involved in
multiple online social networks simultaneously. The shared users between
different networks are called anchor users, while the remaining unshared users
are named as non-anchor users. Connections between accounts of anchor users in
different networks are defined as anchor links and networks partially aligned
by anchor links can be represented as partially aligned networks. In this
paper, we want to predict anchor links between partially aligned social
networks, which is formally defined as the partial network alignment problem.
The partial network alignment problem is very difficult to solve because of the
following two challenges: (1) the lack of general features for anchor links,
and (2) the "one-to-one$_\le$" (one to at most one) constraint on anchor links.
To address these two challenges, a new method PNA (Partial Network Aligner) is
proposed in this paper. PNA (1) extracts a set of explicit anchor adjacency
features and latent topological features for anchor links based on the anchor
meta path concept and tensor decomposition techniques, and (2) utilizes the
generic stable matching to identify the non-anchor users to prune the redundant
anchor links attached to them. Extensive experiments conducted on two
real-world partially aligned social networks demonstrate that PNA can solve the
partial network alignment problem very well and outperform all the other
comparison methods with significant advantages.


Mutual Community Detection across Multiple Partially Aligned Social
  Networks

  Community detection in online social networks has been a hot research topic
in recent years. Meanwhile, to enjoy more social network services, users
nowadays are usually involved in multiple online social networks
simultaneously, some of which can share common information and structures.
Networks that involve some common users are named as multiple "partially
aligned networks". In this paper, we want to detect communities of multiple
partially aligned networks simultaneously, which is formally defined as the
"Mutual Clustering" problem. The "Mutual Clustering" problem is very
challenging as it has two important issues to address: (1) how to preserve the
network characteristics in mutual community detection? and (2) how to utilize
the information in other aligned networks to refine and disambiguate the
community structures of the shared users? To solve these two challenges, a
novel community detection method, MCD (Mutual Community Detector), is proposed
in this paper. MCD can detect social community structures of users in multiple
partially aligned networks at the same time with full considerations of (1)
characteristics of each network, and (2) information of the shared users across
aligned networks. Extensive experiments conducted on two real-world partially
aligned heterogeneous social networks demonstrate that MCD can solve the
"Mutual Clustering" problem very well.


Organizational Chart Inference

  Nowadays, to facilitate the communication and cooperation among employees, a
new family of online social networks has been adopted in many companies, which
are called the "enterprise social networks" (ESNs). ESNs can provide employees
with various professional services to help them deal with daily work issues.
Meanwhile, employees in companies are usually organized into different
hierarchies according to the relative ranks of their positions. The company
internal management structure can be outlined with the organizational chart
visually, which is normally confidential to the public out of the privacy and
security concerns. In this paper, we want to study the IOC (Inference of
Organizational Chart) problem to identify company internal organizational chart
based on the heterogeneous online ESN launched in it. IOC is very challenging
to address as, to guarantee smooth operations, the internal organizational
charts of companies need to meet certain structural requirements (about its
depth and width). To solve the IOC problem, a novel unsupervised method Create
(ChArT REcovEr) is proposed in this paper, which consists of 3 steps: (1)
social stratification of ESN users into different social classes, (2)
supervision link inference from managers to subordinates, and (3) consecutive
social classes matching to prune the redundant supervision links. Extensive
experiments conducted on real-world online ESN dataset demonstrate that Create
can perform very well in addressing the IOC problem.


Bicycle-Sharing System Analysis and Trip Prediction

  Bicycle-sharing systems, which can provide shared bike usage services for the
public, have been launched in many big cities. In bicycle-sharing systems,
people can borrow and return bikes at any stations in the service region very
conveniently. Therefore, bicycle-sharing systems are normally used as a
short-distance trip supplement for private vehicles as well as regular public
transportation. Meanwhile, for stations located at different places in the
service region, the bike usages can be quite skewed and imbalanced. Some
stations have too many incoming bikes and get jammed without enough docks for
upcoming bikes, while some other stations get empty quickly and lack enough
bikes for people to check out. Therefore, inferring the potential destinations
and arriving time of each individual trip beforehand can effectively help the
service providers schedule manual bike re-dispatch in advance. In this paper,
we will study the individual trip prediction problem for bicycle-sharing
systems. To address the problem, we study a real-world bicycle-sharing system
and analyze individuals' bike usage behaviors first. Based on the analysis
results, a new trip destination prediction and trip duration inference model
will be introduced. Experiments conducted on a real-world bicycle-sharing
system demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model.


3D Hand Pose Tracking and Estimation Using Stereo Matching

  3D hand pose tracking/estimation will be very important in the next
generation of human-computer interaction. Most of the currently available
algorithms rely on low-cost active depth sensors. However, these sensors can be
easily interfered by other active sources and require relatively high power
consumption. As a result, they are currently not suitable for outdoor
environments and mobile devices. This paper aims at tracking/estimating hand
poses using passive stereo which avoids these limitations. A benchmark with
18,000 stereo image pairs and 18,000 depth images captured from different
scenarios and the ground-truth 3D positions of palm and finger joints (obtained
from the manual label) is thus proposed. This paper demonstrates that the
performance of the state-of-the art tracking/estimation algorithms can be
maintained with most stereo matching algorithms on the proposed benchmark, as
long as the hand segmentation is correct. As a result, a novel stereo-based
hand segmentation algorithm specially designed for hand tracking/estimation is
proposed. The quantitative evaluation demonstrates that the proposed algorithm
is suitable for the state-of-the-art hand pose tracking/estimation algorithms
and the tracking quality is comparable to the use of active depth sensors under
different challenging scenarios.


LATTE: Application Oriented Social Network Embedding

  In recent years, many research works propose to embed the network structured
data into a low-dimensional feature space, where each node is represented as a
feature vector. However, due to the detachment of embedding process with
external tasks, the learned embedding results by most existing embedding models
can be ineffective for application tasks with specific objectives, e.g.,
community detection or information diffusion. In this paper, we propose study
the application oriented heterogeneous social network embedding problem.
Significantly different from the existing works, besides the network structure
preservation, the problem should also incorporate the objectives of external
applications in the objective function. To resolve the problem, in this paper,
we propose a novel network embedding framework, namely the "appLicAtion
orienTed neTwork Embedding" (Latte) model. In Latte, the heterogeneous network
structure can be applied to compute the node "diffusive proximity" scores,
which capture both local and global network structures. Based on these computed
scores, Latte learns the network representation feature vectors by extending
the autoencoder model model to the heterogeneous network scenario, which can
also effectively unite the objectives of network embedding and external
application tasks. Extensive experiments have been done on real-world
heterogeneous social network datasets, and the experimental results have
demonstrated the outstanding performance of Latte in learning the
representation vectors for specific application tasks.


SEGEN: Sample-Ensemble Genetic Evolutional Network Model

  Deep learning, a rebranding of deep neural network research works, has
achieved a remarkable success in recent years. With multiple hidden layers,
deep learning models aim at computing the hierarchical feature representations
of the observational data. Meanwhile, due to its severe disadvantages in data
consumption, computational resources, parameter tuning costs and the lack of
result explainability, deep learning has also suffered from lots of criticism.
In this paper, we will introduce a new representation learning model, namely
"Sample-Ensemble Genetic Evolutionary Network" (SEGEN), which can serve as an
alternative approach to deep learning models. Instead of building one single
deep model, based on a set of sampled sub-instances, SEGEN adopts a
genetic-evolutionary learning strategy to build a group of unit models
generations by generations. The unit models incorporated in SEGEN can be either
traditional machine learning models or the recent deep learning models with a
much "narrower" and "shallower" architecture. The learning results of each
instance at the final generation will be effectively combined from each unit
model via diffusive propagation and ensemble learning strategies. From the
computational perspective, SEGEN requires far less data, fewer computational
resources and parameter tuning efforts, but has sound theoretic
interpretability of the learning process and results. Extensive experiments
have been done on several different real-world benchmark datasets, and the
experimental results obtained by SEGEN have demonstrated its advantages over
the state-of-the-art representation learning models.


Social Network Fusion and Mining: A Survey

  Looking from a global perspective, the landscape of online social networks is
highly fragmented. A large number of online social networks have appeared,
which can provide users with various types of services. Generally, the
information available in these online social networks is of diverse categories,
which can be represented as heterogeneous social networks (HSN) formally.
Meanwhile, in such an age of online social media, users usually participate in
multiple online social networks simultaneously to enjoy more social networks
services, who can act as bridges connecting different networks together. So
multiple HSNs not only represent information in single network, but also fuse
information from multiple networks.
  Formally, the online social networks sharing common users are named as the
aligned social networks, and these shared users who act like anchors aligning
the networks are called the anchor users. The heterogeneous information
generated by users' social activities in the multiple aligned social networks
provides social network practitioners and researchers with the opportunities to
study individual user's social behaviors across multiple social platforms
simultaneously. This paper presents a comprehensive survey about the latest
research works on multiple aligned HSNs studies based on the broad learning
setting, which covers 5 major research tasks, i.e., network alignment, link
prediction, community detection, information diffusion and network embedding
respectively.


EgoCoder: Intelligent Program Synthesis with Hierarchical Sequential
  Neural Network Model

  Programming has been an important skill for researchers and practitioners in
computer science and other related areas. To learn basic programing skills, a
long-time systematic training is usually required for beginners. According to a
recent market report, the computer software market is expected to continue
expanding at an accelerating speed, but the market supply of qualified software
developers can hardly meet such a huge demand. In recent years, the surge of
text generation research works provides the opportunities to address such a
dilemma through automatic program synthesis. In this paper, we propose to make
our try to solve the program synthesis problem from a data mining perspective.
To address the problem, a novel generative model, namely EgoCoder, will be
introduced in this paper. EgoCoder effectively parses program code into
abstract syntax trees (ASTs), where the tree nodes will contain the program
code/comment content and the tree structure can capture the program logic
flows. Based on a new unit model called Hsu, EgoCoder can effectively capture
both the hierarchical and sequential patterns in the program ASTs. Extensive
experiments will be done to compare EgoCoder with the state-of-the-art text
generation methods, and the experimental results have demonstrated the
effectiveness of EgoCoder in addressing the program synthesis problem.


Fake News Detection with Deep Diffusive Network Model

  In recent years, due to the booming development of online social networks,
fake news for various commercial and political purposes has been appearing in
large numbers and widespread in the online world. With deceptive words, online
social network users can get infected by these online fake news easily, which
has brought about tremendous effects on the offline society already. An
important goal in improving the trustworthiness of information in online social
networks is to identify the fake news timely. This paper aims at investigating
the principles, methodologies and algorithms for detecting fake news articles,
creators and subjects from online social networks and evaluating the
corresponding performance. This paper addresses the challenges introduced by
the unknown characteristics of fake news and diverse connections among news
articles, creators and subjects. Based on a detailed data analysis, this paper
introduces a novel automatic fake news credibility inference model, namely
FakeDetector. Based on a set of explicit and latent features extracted from the
textual information, FakeDetector builds a deep diffusive network model to
learn the representations of news articles, creators and subjects
simultaneously. Extensive experiments have been done on a real-world fake news
dataset to compare FakeDetector with several state-of-the-art models, and the
experimental results have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed model.


A Proximal Alternating Direction Method of Multiplier for Linearly
  Constrained Nonconvex Minimization

  Consider the minimization of a nonconvex differentiable function over a
polyhedron. A popular primal-dual first-order method for this problem is to
perform a gradient projection iteration for the augmented Lagrangian function
and then update the dual multiplier vector using the constraint residual.
However, numerical examples show that this approach can exhibit "oscillation"
and may not converge. In this paper, we propose a proximal alternating
direction method of multipliers for the multi-block version of this problem. A
distinctive feature of this method is the introduction of a "smoothed" (i.e.,
exponentially weighted) sequence of primal iterates, and the inclusion, at each
iteration, to the augmented Lagrangian function a quadratic proximal term
centered at the current smoothed primal iterate. The resulting proximal
augmented Lagrangian function is inexactly minimized (via a gradient projection
step) at each iteration while the dual multiplier vector is updated using the
residual of the linear constraints. When the primal and dual stepsizes are
chosen sufficiently small, we show that suitable "smoothing" can stabilize the
"oscillation", and the iterates of the new proximal ADMM algorithm converge to
a stationary point under some mild regularity conditions. Furthermore, when the
objective function is quadratic, we establish the linear convergence of the
algorithm. Our proof is based on a new potential function and a novel use of
error bounds.


Ground-based verification and data processing of Yutu rover Active
  Particle-induced X-ray Spectrometer

  The Active Particle-induced X-ray Spectrometer (APXS) is one of the payloads
on board the Yutu rover of Chang'E-3 mission. In order to assess the
instrumental performance of APXS, a ground verification test was done for two
unknown samples (basaltic rock, mixed powder sample). In this paper, the
details of the experiment configurations and data analysis method are
presented. The results show that the elemental abundance of major elements can
be well determined by the APXS with relative deviations < 15 wt. % (detection
distance = 30 mm, acquisition time = 30 min). The derived detection limit of
each major element is inversely proportional to acquisition time and directly
proportional to detection distance, suggesting that the appropriate distance
should be < 50mm.


Physical Design and Monte Carlo Simulations of a Space Radiation
  Detector onboard the SJ-10 satellite

  A radiation gene box (RGB) onboard the SJ-10 satellite is a device carrying
mice and drosophila cells to determine the biological effects of space
radiation environment. The shielded fluxes of different radioactive sources
were calculated and the linear energy transfers of gamma-rays, electrons,
protons and alpha-particles in tissue were acquired using A-150
tissue-equivalent plastic. Then, a conceptual model of a space radiation
instrument employing three semiconductor sub-detectors for deriving the charged
and uncharged radiation environment of the RGB was designed. The energy
depositions in the three sub-detectors were classified into fifteen channels
(bins) in an algorithm derived from the Monte Carlo method. The physical
feasibility of the conceptual instrument was also verified by Monte Carlo
simulations.


Ideal Weyl semimetals in the chalcopyrites CuTlSe2, AgTlTe2, AuTlTe2 and
  ZnPbAs2

  Weyl semimetals are new states of matter which feature novel Fermi arcs and
exotic transport phenomena. Based on first-principles calculations, we report
that the chalcopyrites CuTlSe2, AgTlTe2, AuTlTe2 and ZnPbAs2 are ideal Weyl
semimetals, having largely separated Weyl points (~ 0.05/A) and uncovered Fermi
arcs that are amenable to experimental detections. We also construct a minimal
effective model to capture the low-energy physics of this class of Weyl
semimetals. Our discovery is a major step toward a perfect playground of
intriguing Weyl semimetals and potential applications for low-power and
high-speed electronics.


BL-MNE: Emerging Heterogeneous Social Network Embedding through Broad
  Learning with Aligned Autoencoder

  Network embedding aims at projecting the network data into a low-dimensional
feature space, where the nodes are represented as a unique feature vector and
network structure can be effectively preserved. In recent years, more and more
online application service sites can be represented as massive and complex
networks, which are extremely challenging for traditional machine learning
algorithms to deal with. Effective embedding of the complex network data into
low-dimension feature representation can both save data storage space and
enable traditional machine learning algorithms applicable to handle the network
data. Network embedding performance will degrade greatly if the networks are of
a sparse structure, like the emerging networks with few connections. In this
paper, we propose to learn the embedding representation for a target emerging
network based on the broad learning setting, where the emerging network is
aligned with other external mature networks at the same time. To solve the
problem, a new embedding framework, namely "Deep alIgned autoencoder based
eMbEdding" (DIME), is introduced in this paper. DIME handles the diverse link
and attribute in a unified analytic based on broad learning, and introduces the
multiple aligned attributed heterogeneous social network concept to model the
network structure. A set of meta paths are introduced in the paper, which
define various kinds of connections among users via the heterogeneous link and
attribute information. The closeness among users in the networks are defined as
the meta proximity scores, which will be fed into DIME to learn the embedding
vectors of users in the emerging network. Extensive experiments have been done
on real-world aligned social networks, which have demonstrated the
effectiveness of DIME in learning the emerging network embedding vectors.


Photon-counting Brillouin optical time-domain reflectometry based on
  up-conversion detector and fiber Fabry-Perot scanning interferometer

  A direct-detection Brillouin optical time-domain reflectometry (BOTDR) is
proposed and demonstrated by using an up-conversion single-photon detector and
a fiber Fabry-Perot scanning interferometer (FFP-SI). Taking advantage of high
signal-to-noise ratio of the detector and high spectrum resolution of the
FFP-SI, the Brillouin spectrum along a polarization maintaining fiber (PMF) is
recorded on a multiscaler with a small data size directly. In contrast with
conventional BOTDR adopting coherent detection, photon-counting BOTDR is
simpler in structure and easier in data processing. In the demonstration
experiment, characteristic parameters of the Brillouin spectrum including its
power, spectral width and frequency center are analyzed simultaneously along a
10 km PMF at different temperature and stain conditions.


Symmetry-protected ideal Weyl semimetal in HgTe-class materials

  Ideal Weyl semimetals with all Weyl nodes exactly at the Fermi level and no
coexisting trivial Fermi surfaces in the bulk, similar to graphene, could
feature deep physics such as exotic transport phenomena induced by the chiral
anomaly. Here, we show that HgTe and half-Heusler compounds, under a broad
range of in-plane compressive strain, could be materials in nature realizing
ideal Weyl semimetals with four pairs of Weyl nodes and topological surface
Fermi arcs. Generically, we find that the HgTe-class materials with nontrivial
band inversion and noncentrosymmetry provide a promising arena to realize ideal
Weyl semimetals. Such ideal Weyl semimetals could further provide a unique
platform to study emergent phenomena such as the interplay between ideal Weyl
fermions and superconductivity in the half-Heusler compound LaPtBi.


Micro-pulse upconversion Doppler lidar for wind and visibility detection
  in the atmospheric boundary layer

  For the first time, a versatile, eyesafe, compact and direct detection
Doppler lidar is developed using upconversion single-photon detection method.
An all-fiber and polarization maintaining architecture is realized to guarantee
the high optical coupling efficiency and the system stability. Using
integrated-optic components, the conservation of etendue of the optical
receiver is achieved by manufacturing a fiber-coupled periodically poled
Lithium niobate waveguide and an all-fiber Fabry-Perot interferometer (FPI).
The so-called double-edge direct detection is implemented using a
single-channel FPI and a single upconversion detector, incorporating
time-division multiplexing method. The relative error of the system is lower
than 0.1% over 9 weeks. To show the robust of the system, atmospheric wind and
visibility over 48 hours are detected in the boundary layer. In the
intercomparison experiments, lidar shows good agreement with the ultrasonic
wind sensor (Vaisala windcap WMT52), with standard deviation of 1.04 m/s in
speed and 12.3{\deg} in direction.


Brillouin optical time domain reflectometry for fast detection of
  dynamic strain incorporating double-edge technique

  For the first time, a direct detection BOTDR is demonstrated for distributed
dynamic strain sensing incorporating double-edge technique, time-division
multiplexing technique and upconversion technique. The double edges are
realized by using the transmission curve and reflection curve of an all-fiber
Fabry-Perot interferometer (FPI). Benefiting from the low loss of the fiber at,
the time-division multiplexing technique is performed to realize the
double-edge technique by using only a single-channel FPI and only one piece of
a detector. In order to detect the weak spontaneous Brillouin backscattering
signal efficiently, a fiber-coupled upconversion detector is adopted to
upconvert the backscattering signal at 1548.1 nm to 863 nm, which is detected
by a Si-APD finally. In the experiment, dynamic strain disturbance up to
1.9m{\epsilon} over 1.5 km of polarization maintaining fiber is detected at a
sampling rate of 30 Hz. An accuracy of 30{\mu}{\epsilon} and spatial resolution
of 0.6 m is realized.


Information-Propogation-Enhanced Neural Machine Translation by Relation
  Model

  Even though sequence-to-sequence neural machine translation (NMT) model have
achieved state-of-art performance in the recent fewer years, but it is widely
concerned that the recurrent neural network (RNN) units are very hard to
capture the long-distance state information, which means RNN can hardly find
the feature with long term dependency as the sequence becomes longer.
Similarly, convolutional neural network (CNN) is introduced into NMT for
speeding recently, however, CNN focus on capturing the local feature of the
sequence; To relieve this issue, we incorporate a relation network into the
standard encoder-decoder framework to enhance information-propogation in neural
network, ensuring that the information of the source sentence can flow into the
decoder adequately. Experiments show that proposed framework outperforms the
statistical MT model and the state-of-art NMT model significantly on two data
sets with different scales.


Refining Source Representations with Relation Networks for Neural
  Machine Translation

  Although neural machine translation (NMT) with the encoder-decoder framework
has achieved great success in recent times, it still suffers from some
drawbacks: RNNs tend to forget old information which is often useful and the
encoder only operates through words without considering word relationship. To
solve these problems, we introduce a relation networks (RN) into NMT to refine
the encoding representations of the source. In our method, the RN first
augments the representation of each source word with its neighbors and reasons
all the possible pairwise relations between them. Then the source
representations and all the relations are fed to the attention module and the
decoder together, keeping the main encoder-decoder architecture unchanged.
Experiments on two Chinese-to-English data sets in different scales both show
that our method can outperform the competitive baselines significantly.


Exploiting Investors Social Network for Stock Prediction in China's
  Market

  Recent works have shown that social media platforms are able to influence the
trends of stock price movements. However, existing works have majorly focused
on the U.S. stock market and lacked attention to certain emerging countries
such as China, where retail investors dominate the market. In this regard, as
retail investors are prone to be influenced by news or other social media,
psychological and behavioral features extracted from social media platforms are
thought to well predict stock price movements in the China's market. Recent
advances in the investor social network in China enables the extraction of such
features from web-scale data. In this paper, on the basis of tweets from
Xueqiu, a popular Chinese Twitter-like social platform specialized for
investors, we analyze features with regard to collective sentiment and
perception on stock relatedness and predict stock price movements by employing
nonlinear models. The features of interest prove to be effective in our
experiments.


Liquid phase mass production of air-stable black
  phosphorus/phospholipids nanocomposite with ultralow tunneling barrier

  Few-layer black phosphorus (FLBP), a recently discovered two-dimensional
semiconductor, has attracted substantial attention in the scientific and
technical communities due to its great potential in electronic and
optoelectronic applications. However, reactivity of FLBP flakes with ambient
species limits its direct applications. Among various methods to passivate FLBP
in ambient environment, nanocomposites mixing FLBP flakes with stable matrix
may be one of the most promising approaches for industry applications. Here, we
report a simple one-step procedure to mass produce air-stable
FLBP/phospholipids nanocomposite in liquid phase. The resultant nanocomposite
is found to have ultralow tunneling barrier for charge carriers which can be
described by an Efros-Shklovskii variable range hopping mechanism. Devices made
from such mass-produced FLBP/phospholipids nanocomposite show highly stable
electrical conductivity and opto-electrical response in ambient conditions,
indicating its promising applications in both electronic and optoelectronic
applications. This method could also be generalized to the mass production of
nanocomposites consisting of other air-sensitive two-dimensional materials,
such as FeSe, NbSe2, WTe2, etc.


Cross-type Biomedical Named Entity Recognition with Deep Multi-Task
  Learning

  Motivation: State-of-the-art biomedical named entity recognition (BioNER)
systems often require handcrafted features specific to each entity type, such
as genes, chemicals and diseases. Although recent studies explored using neural
network models for BioNER to free experts from manual feature engineering, the
performance remains limited by the available training data for each entity
type. Results: We propose a multi-task learning framework for BioNER to
collectively use the training data of different types of entities and improve
the performance on each of them. In experiments on 15 benchmark BioNER
datasets, our multi-task model achieves substantially better performance
compared with state-of-the-art BioNER systems and baseline neural sequence
labeling models. Further analysis shows that the large performance gains come
from sharing character- and word-level information among relevant biomedical
entities across differently labeled corpora.


Engineering topological phases in the Luttinger semimetal $α$-Sn

  $\alpha$-Sn is well known as a typical Luttinger semimetal with a quadratic
band touching at the $\Gamma$ point. Based on the effective $k\cdot p$ analysis
as well as first-principles calculations, we demonstrate that multiple
topological phases with a rich diagram, including topological insulator, Dirac
semimetal, and Weyl semimetal phases, can be induced and engineered in
$\alpha$-Sn by external strains, magnetic fields, and circularly polarized
light (CPL). Intriguingly, not only the conventional type-I Weyl nodes, but
also type-II Weyl nodes and double-Weyl nodes can be generated directly from
the quadratic semimetal by applying a magnetic field or CPL. Our results apply
equally well to other Luttinger semimetals with similar crystal and electronic
structures, and thus open an avenue for realizing and engineering multiple
topological phases on a versatile platform.


r-Instance Learning for Missing People Tweets Identification

  The number of missing people (i.e., people who get lost) greatly increases in
recent years. It is a serious worldwide problem, and finding the missing people
consumes a large amount of social resources. In tracking and finding these
missing people, timely data gathering and analysis actually play an important
role. With the development of social media, information about missing people
can get propagated through the web very quickly, which provides a promising way
to solve the problem. The information in online social media is usually of
heterogeneous categories, involving both complex social interactions and
textual data of diverse structures. Effective fusion of these different types
of information for addressing the missing people identification problem can be
a great challenge. Motivated by the multi-instance learning problem and
existing social science theory of "homophily", in this paper, we propose a
novel r-instance (RI) learning model.


Refining Source Representations with Relation Networks for Neural
  Machine Translation

  Although neural machine translation with the encoder-decoder framework has
achieved great success recently, it still suffers drawbacks of forgetting
distant information, which is an inherent disadvantage of recurrent neural
network structure, and disregarding relationship between source words during
encoding step. Whereas in practice, the former information and relationship are
often useful in current step. We target on solving these problems and thus
introduce relation networks to learn better representations of the source. The
relation networks are able to facilitate memorization capability of recurrent
neural network via associating source words with each other, this would also
help retain their relationships. Then the source representations and all the
relations are fed into the attention component together while decoding, with
the main encoder-decoder framework unchanged. Experiments on several datasets
show that our method can improve the translation performance significantly over
the conventional encoder-decoder model and even outperform the approach
involving supervised syntactic knowledge.


