Permutation Generation: Two New Permutation Algorithms

  Two completely new algorithms for generating permutations, shift-cursor
algorithm and level algorithm, and their efficient implementations are
presented in this paper. One implementation of the shift cursor algorithm gives
an optimal solution of the permutation generation problem, and one
implementation of the level algorithm can be used to generate random
permutations.


On a conjecture of Bondy and Vince

  Twenty years ago Bondy and Vince conjectured that for any nonnegative integer
$k$, except finitely many counterexamples, every graph with $k$ vertices of
degree less than three contains two cycles whose lengths differ by one or two.
The case $k\leq 2$ was proved by Bondy and Vince, which resolved an earlier
conjecture of Erd\H{o}s et. al.. In this paper we confirm this conjecture for
all $k$.


Longitudinal Single Bunch Instability Study on BEPCII

  In order to study the single bunch longitudinal instability in BEPCII,
experiments on the positron ring (BPR) for the bunch lengthening phenomenon
were made. By analyzing the experimental data based on Gao's theory, the
longitudinal loss factor for the bunch are obtained. Also, the total wake
potential and the beam current threshold are estimated.


Observations of interior whispering gallery modes in asymmetric optical
  resonators with rational caustics

  We propose asymmetric resonant cavities with rational caustics and
experimentally demonstrate interior whispering gallery modes in monolithic
silicon mesoscopic microcavities. These microcavities demonstrate unique
robustness of cavity quality factor (Q) against roughness Rayleigh scattering.
Angle-resolved tapered fiber measurements and near-field images observe
distinct resonant families and asymmetric emission from interior whispering
gallery modes, which can be used for microcavity laser and CQED applications.


Realizing quantum controlled phase-flip gate through quantum dot in
  silicon slow-light photonic crystal waveguide

  We propose a scheme to realize controlled phase gate between two single
photons through a single quantum dot in slow-light silicon photonic crystal
waveguide. Enhanced Purcell factor and beta factor lead to high gate fidelity
over broadband frequencies compared to cavity-assisted system. The excellent
physical integration of this silicon photonic crystal waveguide system provides
tremendous potential for large-scale quantum information processing.


Quantum entanglement in plasmonic waveguides with near-zero mode indices

  We investigate the quantum entanglement between two quantum dots in a
plasmonic waveguide with near-zero mode index, considering the dependence of
concurrence on interdot distance, quantum dot-waveguide frequency detuning and
coupling strength ratio. High concurrence is achieved for a wide range of
interdot distance due to the near-zero mode index, which largely relaxes the
strict requirement of interdot distance in conventional dielectric waveguides
or metal nanowires. The proposed quantum dot-waveguide system with near-zero
phase variation along the waveguide near the mode cutoff frequency shows very
promising potential in quantum optics and quantum information processing.


Minimum codegree threshold for $C_6^3$-factors in $3$-uniform
  Hypergraphs

  Let $C_6^3$ be the 3-uniform hypergraph on $\{1,\dots, 6\}$ with edges $123,
345,561$, which can be seen as the triangle in 3-uniform hypergraphs. For
sufficiently large $n$ divisible by 6, we show that every $n$-vertex 3-uniform
hypergraph $H$ with minimum codegree at least $n/3$ contains a $C_6^3$-factor,
i.e., a spanning subhypergraph consisting of vertex-disjoint copies of $C_6^3$.
The minimum codegree condition is best possible. This improves the asymptotical
result obtained by Mycroft and answers a question of R\"odl and Ruci\'nski
exactly.


An improved empirical equation for bunch lengthening in electron storage
  rings

  In this paper we propose an improved empirical equation for the bunch
lengthening in electron storage rings. The comparisons are made between the
analytical and experimental results, and the agreements are quite well. This
improved equation can be equally applied to the case where a storage ring is
very resistive (such as the improved SLC damping rings) instead of inductive as
usual.


Giant mesoscopic spin Hall effect on surface of topological insulator

  We study mesoscopic spin Hall effect on the surface of topological insulator
with a step-function potential. The giant spin polarization induced by a
transverse electric current is derived analytically by using McMillan method in
the ballistic transport limit, which oscillates across the potential boundary
with no confinement from the potential barrier due to the Klein paradox, and
should be observable in spin resolved scanning tunneling microscope.


Simplicial Monoid Actions and The Associated Universal Simplicial Monoid
  Construction

  The reduced universal monoid on the action category associated to a pointed
simplicial M-set has appeared in the guise of various simplicial monoid and
group constructions. These include the classical constructions of Milnor and
James, as well as their later generalizations by Carlsson and Wu. We prove
that, if any two n-simplices in the same orbit differ by the action of an
invertible monoid element, then the classifying space of this reduced universal
monoid is the homotopy cofiber of the inclusion from the pointed simplicial set
into its reduced Borel construction. The known formulae for the respective
classifying spaces of the above four constructions are special cases of this
result. Thus, we unify categorially the four above-mentioned constructions.


Loop homological invariants associated to real projective spaces

  Let A be a based subspace of Y. Under the assumptions that Y is
path-connected and that the reduced diagonal map of A induces the zero map in
all mod 2 reduced homology groups, we compute a formula for the mod 2 reduced
Poincar\'{e} series of the loop space $\Omega ((A \wedge \mathbb{RP}^\infty)
\cup_{A \wedge \mathbb{RP}^1} (Y \wedge \mathbb{RP}^1))$. Here
$\mathbb{RP}^\infty$ and $\mathbb{RP}^1$ denote the infinite real projective
space and the real projective line respectively.


Toric Difference Variety

  In this paper, the concept of toric difference varieties is defined and four
equivalent descriptions for toric difference varieties are presented in terms
of difference rational parametrization, difference coordinate rings, toric
difference ideals, and group actions by difference tori. Connections between
toric difference varieties and affine N[x]-semimodules are established by
proving the correspondence between the irreducible invariant difference
subvarieties and the faces of the N[x]-submodules and the orbit-face
correspondence. Finally, an algorithm is given to decide whether a binomial
difference ideal represented by a Z[x]-lattice defines a toric difference
variety.


Strongly coupled slow-light polaritons in one-dimensional disordered
  localized states

  Cavity quantum electrodynamics advances the coherent control of a single
quantum emitter with a quantized radiation field mode, typically piecewise
engineered for the highest finesse and confinement in the cavity field. This
enables the possibility of strong coupling for chip-scale quantum processing,
but till now is limited to few research groups that can achieve the precision
and deterministic requirements for these polariton states. Here we observe for
the first time coherent polariton states of strong coupled single quantum dot
excitons in inherently disordered one-dimensional localized modes in slow-light
photonic crystals. Large vacuum Rabi splittings up to 311 {\mu}eV are observed,
one of the largest avoided crossings in the solid-state. Our tight-binding
models with quantum impurities detail these strong localized polaritons,
spanning different disorder strengths, complementary to model-extracted pure
dephasing and incoherent pumping rates. Such disorder-induced slow-light
polaritons provide a platform towards coherent control, collective
interactions, and quantum information processing.


A Driver ASIC for Scientific CCD Detectors Using 180nm Technology

  In order to achieve the driver function for several types of scientific CCD
detector from E2V Co Ltd, and decreasing the size of electronics of CCD
detector system, an Application-specified Integrated Circuit (ASIC) was
designed. It provides multi-channel clocks and bias voltage for CCD driver. In
the ASIC, the clock drivers are made of a clock switch circuit and high voltage
amplifier. Two 8-bit current-steering DACs are used to adjust the driver
capability and high-level voltage of clocks. The bias drivers are generated by
8-bit current-steering DACs and off-chip operation amplifiers. The Global
Foundry 180 nm BCDlite technology is selected to implement this design. The
first version of design has been finished and the tests have been done.


Topology optimization of micro-structured materials featured with the
  specific mechanical properties

  Micro-structured materials consisting of an array of microstructures are
engineered to provide the specific material properties. This present work
investigates the design of cellular materials under the framework of level set,
so as to optimize the topologies and shapes of these porous material
microstructures. Firstly, the energy-based homogenization method (EBHM) is
applied to evaluate the material effective properties based on the topology of
the material cell, where the effective elasticity property is evaluated by the
average stress and strain theorems. Secondly, a parametric level set method
(PLSM) is employed to optimize the microstructural topology until the specific
mechanical properties can be achieved, including the maximum bulk modulus, the
maximum shear modulus and their combinations, as well as the negative Poisson's
ratio (NPR). The complicated topological shape optimization of the material
microstructure has been equivalent to evolve the sizes of the expansion
coefficients in the interpolation of the level set function. Finally, several
numerical examples are fully discussed to demonstrate the effectiveness of the
developed method. A series of new and interesting material cells with the
specific mechanical properties can be found.


Analytical treatment of the emittance growth in the main Linacs of
  future linear colliders

  In this paper the single and multibunch emittance growths in the main linac
of a linear collider are analytically treated in analogy to the Brownian motion
of a molecule, and the analytical formulae for the emittance growth due to
accelerating structure misalignment errors are obtained by solving Langevin
equation. The same set of formulae is derived also by solving directly
Fokker-Planck equation. Comparisons with numerical simulation results are made
and the agreement is quite well.


Analytical estimation of the dynamic apertures of circular accelerators

  By considering delta function sextupole, octupole, and decapole perturbations
and using difference action-angle variable equations, we find some useful
analytical formulae for the estimation of the dynamic apertures of circular
accelerators due to single sextupole, single octupole, single decapole (single
2$m$ pole in general). Their combined effects are derived based on the Chirikov
criterion of the onset of stochastic motions. Comparisons with numerical
simulations are made, and the agreement is quite satisfactory. These formulae
have been applied to determine the beam-beam limited dynamic aperture in a
circular collider.


Realizing Quantum Controlled Phase Flip through Cavity-QED

  We propose a scheme to realize quantum controlled phase flip (CPF) between
two rare earth ions embedded in respective microsphere cavity via interacting
with a single-photon pulse in sequence. The numerical simulations illuminate
that the CPF gate between ions is robust and scalable with extremely high
fidelity and low error rate. Our scheme is more applicable than other schemes
presented before based on current laboratory cavity-QED technology, and it is
possible to be used as an applied unit gate in future quantum computation and
quantum communication.


Generation of Multi-atom Dicke States with Quasi-unit Probability
  through the Detection of Cavity Decay

  We propose a scheme to create universal Dicke states of n largely detuned
atoms through detecting the leaky photons from an optical cavity. The
generation of entangled states in our scheme has quasi-unit success
probability, so it has potential practicability based on current or near coming
laboratory cavity QED technology.


On the quantization accuracy of the acoustoelectric current

  By deriving analytical formulae for the quantization accuracy of the
acoustoelectric current, we reveal that: 1) the flatness of the current plateau
for the typical present devices has reached the theoretical limit of about
100ppm over a 1/1000 change of the gate voltage; 2) increasing the transport
channel length, and counterintuitively, increasing the acoustic wavelength as
well, would improve the quantization accuracy, and very promisingly up to
0.01ppm as required for a quantum current standard.


Infrared perfect absorber based on nanowire metamaterial cavities

  An infrared perfect absorber based on gold nanowire metamaterial cavities
array on a gold ground plane is designed. The metamaterial made of gold
nanowires embedded in alumina host exhibits an effective permittivity with
strong anisotropy, which supports cavity resonant modes of both electric dipole
and magnetic dipole. The impedance of the cavity modes matches the incident
plane wave in free space, leading to nearly perfect light absorption. The
incident optical energy is efficiently converted into heat so that the local
temperature of the absorber will increase. Simulation results show that the
designed metamaterial absorber is polarization-insensitive and nearly
omnidirectional for the incident angle.


Report of the ICFA Beam Dynamics Workshop 'Accelerators for a Higgs
  Factory: Linear vs. Circular' (HF2012)

  This paper is a summary report of the ICFA Beam Dynamics Workshop
'Accelerators for a Higgs Factory: Linear vs. Circular' (HF2012). It discusses
four types of accelerators as possible candidates for a Higgs factory: linear
e+e- colliders, circular e+e- colliders, muon collider and photon colliders.
The comparison includes: physics reach, performance (energy and luminosity),
upgrade potential, technology maturity and readiness, and technical challenges
requiring further R&D.


Optimization Parameter Design of a Circular e+e- Higgs Factory

  In this paper we will show a general method of how to make an optimized
parameter design of a circular e+e- Higgs Factory by using analytical
expression of maximum beam-beam parameter and beamstrahlung beam lifetime
started from given design goal and technical limitations. A parameter space has
been explored. Based on beam parameters scan and RF parameters scan, a set of
optimized parameter designs for 50 km Circular Higgs Factory (CHF) with
different RF frequency was proposed.


Broadband Epsilon-Near-Zero Metamaterials with Step-Like
  Metal-Dielectric Multilayer Structures

  The concept of the broadband epsilon-near-zero meta-atom consisting of
layered stacks with specified metallic filling ratio and thickness is proposed
based on the Bergman spectral representation of the effective permittivity. The
step-like metal-dielectric multilayer structures are designed to achieve
realistic broadband epsilon-near-zero meta-atoms in optical frequency range.
These meta-atoms can be integrated as building blocks for unconventional
optical components with exotic electromagnetic properties over a wide frequency
range, such as the demonstrated broadband directional emission and phase front
shaping.


New Method to Improve the Accelerating Gradient of Superconducting
  Cavity

  Quench is a common phenomenon in a superconducting cavity and often limits
the accelerating gradient of the cavity. Accurate location of the quench site
can be located by second sound detection. For multi-cell superconducting
cavity, one defect may cause the cell with defect quenches and then the whole
cavity quenches. Now we proposed a new method to eliminate the bad influence of
the quench cell to the whole cavity.


Realizing broadband electromagnetic transparency with a
  graded-permittivity sphere

  Broadband electromagnetic transparency phenomenon is realized with a
well-designed graded-permittivity sphere, which has an extremely low scattering
cross section over a wide frequency range, based on the generalized Mie
scattering theory and numerical simulation in full-wave condition. The dynamic
polarization cancellation is revealed by studying the variation of the
polarization with respect to the frequency. Furthermore, a properly-designed
multi-shell sphere is also proposed and examined in order to reduce the
rigorous conditions for realizing the broadband transparency in experiments.


Design of geometric phase measurement in EAST Tokamak

  The optimum scheme for geometric phase measurement in EAST Tokamak is
proposed in this paper. The theoretical values of geometric phase for the probe
beams of EAST Polarimeter-Interferometer (POINT) system are calculated by path
integration in parameter space. Meanwhile, the influences of some controllable
parameters on geometric phase are evaluated. The feasibility and challenge of
distinguishing geometric effect in the POINT signal are also assessed in
detail.


Method Study of Parameter Choice for a Circular Proton-Proton Collider

  In this paper we showed a systematic method of appropriate parameter choice
for a circular pp collider by using analytical expression of beam-beam tune
shift limit started from given design goal and technical limitations. A
parameter space has been explored. Based on parameters scan and considerations
from RF systems, a set of appropriate parameter designed for a 50Km and a 100Km
circular proton-proton collider was proposed.


Diffraction-free optical beam propagation with near-zero phase variation
  in extremely anisotropic metamaterials

  Extremely anisotropic metal-dielectric multilayer metamaterials are designed
to have the effective permittivity tensor of a transverse component (parallel
to the interfaces of the multilayer) with zero real part and a longitudinal
component (normal to the interfaces of the multilayer) with ultra-large
imaginary part at the same wavelength, including the optical nonlocality
analysis based on the transfer-matrix method. The diffraction-free
deep-subwavelength optical beam propagation with near-zero phase variation in
the designed multilayer stack due to the near-flat iso-frequency contour is
demonstrated and analyzed, including the effects of the multilayer period and
the material loss.


HOMs Simulation and Measurement Results of IHEP02 Cavity

  In cavities, there exists not only the fundamental mode which is used to
accelerate the beam but also higher order modes (HOMs). The higher order modes
excited by beam can seriously affect beam quality, especially for the higher
R/Q modes. This paper reports on measured results of higher order modes in the
IHEP02 1.3GHz low-loss 9-cell superconducting cavity. Using different methods,
Qe of the dangerous modes passbands have been got. The results are compared
with TESLA cavity results. R/Q of the first three passbands have also been got
by simulation and compared with the results of TESLA cavity.


Nonlocal effective medium approximation for metallic nanorod
  metamaterials

  We present an analytical nonlocal effective medium approximation to describe
the optical nonlocal effects in metallic nanorod metamaterials based on Mie
scattering theory. It is shown that the developed nonlocal effective medium
theory can predict a coexistence state of two modes around the
epsilon-near-zero region, where strong optical nonlocal effects lead to the
behavior of both positive refraction and negative refraction in the nanorod
metamaterials. Outside of the coexistence region, only one mode can be excited
and its behavior can be well described using the local effective medium theory.


Cavity and HOM Coupler Design for CEPC

  In this paper we will show a cavity and higher order mode (HOM) coupler
designing scheme for the Circular Electron-Positron Collider (CEPC) main ring.
The cavity radio frequency (RF) design parameters are showed in this paper. The
HOM power is calculated based on the beam parameters in the Preliminary
Conceptual Design Report (Pre-CDR). The damping results of the higher order
modes (HOMs) and same order modes (SOMs) show that they are reached the damping
requirements for beam stability.


Beam halo study on ATF damping ring

  Halo distribution is a key topic for background study. This paper has
developed an analytical method to give an estimation of ATF beam halo
distribution. The equilibrium particle distribution of the beam tail in the ATF
damping ring is calculated analytically with different emittance and different
vacuum degree. The analytical results agree the measurements very well. This is
a general method which can be applied to any electron rings.


Study of the $\bar{B}_{q}^{\ast}$ ${\to}$ $DM$ decays with perturbative
  QCD approach

  The $\bar{B}_{q}^{\ast}$ ${\to}$ $DP$, $DV$ weak decays are studied with the
perturbative QCD approach, where $q$ $=$ $u$, $d$ and $s$; $P$ and $V$ denote
the ground $SU(3)$ pseudoscalar and vector meson nonet. It is found that the
branching ratios for the color-allowed $\bar{B}_{q}^{\ast}$ ${\to}$
$D_{q}{\rho}^{-}$ decays can reach up to $10^{-9}$ or more, and should be
promisingly measurable at the running LHC and forthcoming SuperKEKB experiments
in the near future.


Study of $J/ψ$ ${\to}$ $D_{s,d}V$ decays with perturbative QCD
  approach

  Inspired by the recent measurements on two-body nonleptonic $J/{\psi}$ weak
decay at BESIII, the charm-changing $J/{\psi}$ ${\to}$ $D_{s,d}V$ weak decays
are studied with perturbative QCD approach, where $V$ denotes ${\rho}$ and
$K^{\ast}$ vector mesons. It is found that branching ratio for $J/{\psi}$
${\to}$ $D_{s}{\rho}$ decay can reach up to ${\cal O}(10^{-9})$, which is
within the potential measurement capability of the future high-luminosity
experiments.


Convergence analysis of kernel LMS algorithm with pre-tuned dictionary

  The kernel least-mean-square (KLMS) algorithm is an appealing tool for online
identification of nonlinear systems due to its simplicity and robustness. In
addition to choosing a reproducing kernel and setting filter parameters,
designing a KLMS adaptive filter requires to select a so-called dictionary in
order to get a finite-order model. This dictionary has a significant impact on
performance, and requires careful consideration. Theoretical analysis of KLMS
as a function of dictionary setting has rarely, if ever, been addressed in the
literature. In an analysis previously published by the authors, the dictionary
elements were assumed to be governed by the same probability density function
of the input data. In this paper, we modify this study by considering the
dictionary as part of the filter parameters to be set. This theoretical
analysis paves the way for future investigations on KLMS dictionary design.


Codegree conditions for tiling complete $k$-partite $k$-graphs and loose
  cycles

  Given two $k$-graphs ($k$-uniform hypergraphs) $F$ and $H$, a perfect
$F$-tiling (or an $F$-factor) in $H$ is a set of vertex disjoint copies of $F$
that together cover the vertex set of $H$. For all complete $k$-partite
$k$-graphs $K$, Mycroft proved a minimum codegree condition that guarantees a
$K$-factor in an $n$-vertex $k$-graph, which is tight up to an error term
$o(n)$. In this paper we improve the error term in Mycroft's result to a
sub-linear term that relates to the Tur\'an number of $K$ when the differences
of the sizes of the vertex classes of $K$ are co-prime. Furthermore, we find a
construction which shows that our improved codegree condition is asymptotically
tight in infinitely many cases thus disproving a conjecture of Mycroft. At
last, we determine exact minimum codegree conditions for tiling $K^{(k)}(1,
\dots, 1, 2)$ and tiling loose cycles thus generalizing results of Czygrinow,
DeBiasio, and Nagle, and of Czygrinow, respectively.


Directional Design of Materials Based on the Pareto Optimization:
  Application to Two-Dimensional Thermoelectric SnSe

  Increasing the efficiency of directional design of functional materials is a
challenging work in theory, whose performance and stability are determined by
different factors entangled with each other complicatedly. In this work, we
apply the Pareto Optimization based on the Pareto Efficiency and Particle-Swarm
Optimization to design new functional materials directionally. As a
demonstration, we apply the method to the thermoelectric design of 2D SnSe
materials and identify several novel structures with lower free energy and
better thermoelectric performance than the experimental monolayer structure in
theory. We hope the multi-objective Pareto Optimization method can make the
integrative design of multi-objective and multi-functional materials a reality.


Novel Two-Dimensional Silicon Dioxide with in-plane Negative Poisson's
  Ratio

  Silicon dioxide or silica, normally existing in various bulk crystalline and
amorphous forms, is recently found to possess a two-dimensional structure. In
this work, we use ab initio calculation and evolutionary algorithm to unveil
three new 2D silica structures whose themal, dynamical and mechanical
stabilities are compared with many typical bulk silica. In particular, we find
that all these three 2D silica have large in-plane negative Poisson's ratios
with the largest one being double of penta-graphene and three times of
borophenes. The negative Poisson's ratio originates from the interplay of
lattice symmetry and Si-O tetrahedron symmetry. Slab silica is also an
insulating 2D material, with the highest electronic band gap (> 7 eV) among
reported 2D structures. These exotic 2D silica with in-plane negative Poisson's
ratios and widest band gaps are expected to have great potential applications
in nanomechanics and nanoelectronics.


Unusually low thermal conductivity of atomically thin 2D tellurium

  Tellurium is a high-performance thermoelectric material due to its superior
electronic transport and low lattice thermal conductivity ($\kappa_L$). Here,
we report the ultralow $\kappa_L$ in the monolayer tellurium, i.e., tellurene,
which has been successfully synthesized in recent experiments. We find
tellurene has a compellingly low room temperature $\kappa_L$ of 2.16 and 4.08 W
m$^{-1}$ K$^{-1}$ along the armchair and zigzag directions, respectively, which
is lower than any reported values for other 2D materials. We attribute this
unusually low $\kappa_L$ to the soft acoustic modes, extremely low-energy
optical modes and the strong scattering among optical-acoustic phonons, which
place tellurene as a potential novel thermoelectric material. Finally, we
disclose that $\kappa_L$ is proportional to the largest acoustic phonon
frequency ($\omega_{D}^{a}$) and the lowest optical phonon frequency at
$\Gamma$ point ($\omega_{\Gamma}^{o}$) in 2D materials, which reflect both
harmonic and anharmonic thermal properties respectively.


To Compress, or Not to Compress: Characterizing Deep Learning Model
  Compression for Embedded Inference

  The recent advances in deep neural networks (DNNs) make them attractive for
embedded systems. However, it can take a long time for DNNs to make an
inference on resource-constrained computing devices. Model compression
techniques can address the computation issue of deep inference on embedded
devices. This technique is highly attractive, as it does not rely on
specialized hardware, or computation-offloading that is often infeasible due to
privacy concerns or high latency. However, it remains unclear how model
compression techniques perform across a wide range of DNNs. To design efficient
embedded deep learning solutions, we need to understand their behaviors. This
work develops a quantitative approach to characterize model compression
techniques on a representative embedded deep learning architecture, the NVIDIA
Jetson Tx2. We perform extensive experiments by considering 11 influential
neural network architectures from the image classification and the natural
language processing domains. We experimentally show that how two mainstream
compression techniques, data quantization and pruning, perform on these network
architectures and the implications of compression techniques to the model
storage size, inference time, energy consumption and performance metrics. We
demonstrate that there are opportunities to achieve fast deep inference on
embedded systems, but one must carefully choose the compression settings. Our
results provide insights on when and how to apply model compression techniques
and guidelines for designing efficient embedded deep learning systems.


Design Studies for a High Current Bunching System for CLIC Test Facility
  (CTF3) Drive Beam

  A bunching system is proposed for the initial stage of CTF3 which consists of
one (two) 3 GHz prebunchers and one 3 GHz travelling wave (TW) buncher with
variable phase velocities. The electron beam is emitted from a 140 KV DC gun.
Since the macropulse beam current (3.5 A) at the exit of the TW buncher is
rather high, inside the TW buncher one has to take the beam loading effect into
consideration. By using PARMELA, it is shown numerically that the bunching
system can provide the bunches whose properties satisfy the design requirement
of CTF3. The 0.8 m long TW buncher working at 2pi/3 mode has two phase
velocities, 0.75 and 1. The dimensions of the caities in the two phase velocity
regions are proposed considering the beam loading effect. The transient beam
loading effect and the multibunch transverse instabilities are studied
numerically, and it is concluded that higher order mode couplers should be
installed in the TW buncher with the loaded quality factor of the dipole mode
lower than 80.


Edge superconducting state in attractive U Kane-Mele-Hubbard model

  We theoretically investigate the phase transition from topological insulator
(TI) to superconductor in the attractive U Kane-Mele-Hubbard model with
self-consistent mean field method. We demonstrate the existence of edge
superconducting state (ESS), in which the bulk is still an insulator and the
superconductivity only appears near the edges. The ESS results from the special
energy dispersion of TI, and is a general property of the superconductivity in
TI. The phase transition in this model essentially consists of two steps. When
the attractive U becomes nonzero, ESS appears immediately. After the attractive
U exceeds a critical value $U_c$, the whole system becomes a superconductor.
The effective model of the ESS has also been discussed and we believe that the
conception of ESS can be realized in atomic optical lattice system.


Source Delay in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks

  Source delay, the time a packet experiences in its source node, serves as a
fundamental quantity for delay performance analysis in networks. However, the
source delay performance in highly dynamic mobile ad hoc networks (MANETs) is
still largely unknown by now. This paper studies the source delay in MANETs
based on a general packet dispatching scheme with dispatch limit $f$ (PD-$f$
for short), where a same packet will be dispatched out up to $f$ times by its
source node such that packet dispatching process can be flexibly controlled
through a proper setting of $f$. We first apply the Quasi-Birth-and-Death (QBD)
theory to develop a theoretical framework to capture the complex packet
dispatching process in PD-$f$ MANETs. With the help of the theoretical
framework, we then derive the cumulative distribution function as well as mean
and variance of the source delay in such networks. Finally, extensive
simulation and theoretical results are provided to validate our source delay
analysis and illustrate how source delay in MANETs are related to network
parameters.


Stacking order, interaction and weak surface magnetism in layered
  graphene sheets

  Recent transport experiments have demonstrated that the rhombohedral stacking
trilayer graphene is an insulator with an intrinsic gap of 6meV and the Bernal
stacking trilayer one is a metal. We propose a Hubbard model with a moderate
$U$ for layered graphene sheets, and show that the model well explains the
experiments of the stacking dependent energy gap. The on-site Coulomb repulsion
drives the metallic phase of the non-interacting system to a weak surface
antiferromagnetic insulator for the rhombohedral stacking layers, but does not
alter the metallic phase for the Bernal stacking layers.


Homology Decompositions of the Loops on 1-Stunted Borel Constructions of
  C_2-Actions

  Carlsson's construction is a simplicial group whose geometric realization is
the loop space of the 1-stunted reduced Borel construction. Our main results
are: i) Given a pointed simplicial set acted upon by the discrete cyclic group
C_2 of order 2, if the orbit projection has a section, then this loop space has
a mod 2 homology decomposition; ii) If the reduced diagonal map of the
C_2-invariant set is homologous to zero, then the pinched sets in the above
homology decomposition themselves have homology decompositions in terms of the
C_2-invariant set and the orbit space. Result i) generalizes a previous
homology decomposition of the second author for trivial actions. To illustrate
these two results, we completely compute the mod 2 Betti numbers for an
example.


Three-component topological superfluid in one-dimensional Fermi gases
  with spin-orbit coupling

  We theoretically investigate one-dimensional three-component
spin-orbit-coupled Fermi gases in the presence of Zeeman field. By solving the
Bogoliubov-de-Gennes equations, we obtain the phase diagram at given chemical
potential and order parameter. We show that the system undergoes a phase
transition from Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer superfluid to topological superfluid
as increasing the intensity of Zeeman field. By comparing to the two-component
system, we find, besides the topological phase transition from the trivial
superfluid to nontrivial topological superfluid, the system can always be in a
nontrivial topological superfluid, and there are two Majorana zero energy
regions while increasing the magnetic field. We find the three-component
spin-orbit-coupled Fermi gases in certain parameter range is more optimizing
for experimental realization due to the smaller magnetic field needed. We
therefore propose a promising candidate for realizing topological superfluid.


Pressure of Degenerate and Relativistic electrons in a superhigh
  magnetic field

  Based on our previous work, we deduce a general formula for pressure of
degenerate and relativistic electrons,Pe, which is suitable for superhigh
magnetic fields, discuss the quantization of Landau levels of electrons, and
consider the quantum electrodynam-ic(QED) effects on the equations of states
(EOSs) for different matter systems. The main conclusions are as follows:Pe is
related to the magnetic field B, matter density ?, and electron fraction Ye ;
the stronger the magnetic field, the higher the electron pressure becomes; the
high electron pressure could be caused by high Fermi energy of electrons in a
superhigh magnetic field; compared with a common radio pulsar, a magnetar could
be a more compact oblate spheroid-like deformed neutron star due to the
anisotropic total pressure; and an increase in the maximum mass of a magnetar
is expected because of the positive contribution of the magnetic field energy
to the EOS of the star.


Sparse Data Driven Mesh Deformation

  Example-based mesh deformation methods are powerful tools for realistic shape
editing. However, existing techniques typically combine all the example
deformation modes, which can lead to overfitting, i.e. using a overly
complicated model to explain the user-specified deformation. This leads to
implausible or unstable deformation results, including unexpected global
changes outside the region of interest. To address this fundamental limitation,
we propose a sparse blending method that automatically selects a smaller number
of deformation modes to compactly describe the desired deformation. This along
with a suitably chosen deformation basis including spatially localized
deformation modes leads to significant advantages, including more meaningful,
reliable, and efficient deformations because fewer and localized deformation
modes are applied. To cope with large rotations, we develop a simple but
effective representation based on polar decomposition of deformation gradients,
which resolves the ambiguity of large global rotations using an
as-consistent-as-possible global optimization. This simple representation has a
closed form solution for derivatives, making it efficient for sparse localized
representation and thus ensuring interactive performance. Experimental results
show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art data-driven mesh deformation
methods, for both quality of results and efficiency.


Energy-Efficient Thermal Comfort Control in Smart Buildings via Deep
  Reinforcement Learning

  Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) is extremely
energy-consuming, accounting for 40% of total building energy consumption.
Therefore, it is crucial to design some energy-efficient building thermal
control policies which can reduce the energy consumption of HVAC while
maintaining the comfort of the occupants. However, implementing such a policy
is challenging, because it involves various influencing factors in a building
environment, which are usually hard to model and may be different from case to
case. To address this challenge, we propose a deep reinforcement learning based
framework for energy optimization and thermal comfort control in smart
buildings. We formulate the building thermal control as a cost-minimization
problem which jointly considers the energy consumption of HVAC and the thermal
comfort of the occupants. To solve the problem, we first adopt a deep neural
network based approach for predicting the occupants' thermal comfort, and then
adopt Deep Deterministic Policy Gradients (DDPG) for learning the thermal
control policy. To evaluate the performance, we implement a building thermal
control simulation system and evaluate the performance under various settings.
The experiment results show that our method can improve the thermal comfort
prediction accuracy, and reduce the energy consumption of HVAC while improving
the occupants' thermal comfort.


