Catching Fire via "Likes": Inferring Topic Preferences of Trump
  Followers on Twitter

  In this paper, we propose a framework to infer the topic preferences of
Donald Trump's followers on Twitter. We first use latent Dirichlet allocation
(LDA) to derive the weighted mixture of topics for each Trump tweet. Then we
use negative binomial regression to model the "likes," with the weights of each
topic serving as explanatory variables. Our study shows that attacking
Democrats such as President Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
earns Trump the most "likes." Our framework of inference is generalizable to
the study of other politicians.


To Follow or Not to Follow: Analyzing the Growth Patterns of the
  Trumpists on Twitter

  In this paper, we analyze the growth patterns of Donald Trump's followers
(Trumpists, henceforth) on Twitter. We first construct a random walk model with
a time trend to study the growth trend and the effects of public debates. We
then analyze the relationship between Trump's activity on Twitter and the
growth of his followers. Thirdly, we analyze the effects of such controversial
events as calling for Muslim ban and his 'schlonged' remark.


Pinterest Board Recommendation for Twitter Users

  Pinboard on Pinterest is an emerging media to engage online social media
users, on which users post online images for specific topics. Regardless of its
significance, there is little previous work specifically to facilitate
information discovery based on pinboards. This paper proposes a novel pinboard
recommendation system for Twitter users. In order to associate contents from
the two social media platforms, we propose to use MultiLabel classification to
map Twitter user followees to pinboard topics and visual diversification to
recommend pinboards given user interested topics. A preliminary experiment on a
dataset with 2000 users validated our proposed system.


Election Bias: Comparing Polls and Twitter in the 2016 U.S. Election

  While the polls have been the most trusted source for election predictions
for decades, in the recent presidential election they were called inaccurate
and biased. How inaccurate were the polls in this election and can social media
beat the polls as an accurate election predictor? Polls from several news
outlets and sentiment analysis on Twitter data were used, in conjunction with
the results of the election, to answer this question and outline further
research on the best method for predicting the outcome of future elections.


When Follow is Just One Click Away: Understanding Twitter Follow
  Behavior in the 2016 U.S. Presidential Election

  Motivated by the two paradoxical facts that the marginal cost of following
one extra candidate is close to zero and that the majority of Twitter users
choose to follow only one or two candidates, we study the Twitter follow
behaviors observed in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Specifically, we
complete the following tasks: (1) analyze Twitter follow patterns of the
presidential election on Twitter, (2) use negative binomial regression to study
the effects of gender and occupation on the number of candidates that one
follows, and (3) use multinomial logistic regression to investigate the effects
of gender, occupation and celebrities on the choice of candidates to follow.


Understanding Illicit Drug Use Behaviors by Mining Social Media

  Drug use by people is on the rise and is of great interest to public health
agencies and law enforcement agencies. As found by the National Survey on Drug
Use and Health, 20 million Americans aged 12 years or older consumed illicit
drugs in the past few 30 days. Given their ubiquity in everyday life, drug
abuse related studies have received much and constant attention. However, most
of the existing studies rely on surveys. Surveys present a fair number of
problems because of their nature. Surveys on sensitive topics such as illicit
drug use may not be answered truthfully by the people taking them. Selecting a
representative sample to survey is another major challenge. In this paper, we
explore the possibility of using big data from social media in order to
understand illicit drug use behaviors. Instagram posts are collected using drug
related terms by analyzing the hashtags supplied with each post. A large and
dynamic dictionary of frequent illicit drug related slang is used to find these
posts. These posts are studied to find common drug consumption behaviors with
regard to time of day and week. Furthermore, by studying the accounts followed
by the users of drug related posts, we hope to discover common interests shared
by drug users.


Learning to Generate Time-Lapse Videos Using Multi-Stage Dynamic
  Generative Adversarial Networks

  Taking a photo outside, can we predict the immediate future, e.g., how would
the cloud move in the sky? We address this problem by presenting a generative
adversarial network (GAN) based two-stage approach to generating realistic
time-lapse videos of high resolution. Given the first frame, our model learns
to generate long-term future frames. The first stage generates videos of
realistic contents for each frame. The second stage refines the generated video
from the first stage by enforcing it to be closer to real videos with regard to
motion dynamics. To further encourage vivid motion in the final generated
video, Gram matrix is employed to model the motion more precisely. We build a
large scale time-lapse dataset, and test our approach on this new dataset.
Using our model, we are able to generate realistic videos of up to $128\times
128$ resolution for 32 frames. Quantitative and qualitative experiment results
have demonstrated the superiority of our model over the state-of-the-art
models.


The Effect of Pets on Happiness: A Large-scale Multi-Factor Analysis
  using Social Multimedia

  From reducing stress and loneliness, to boosting productivity and overall
well-being, pets are believed to play a significant role in people's daily
lives. Many traditional studies have identified that frequent interactions with
pets could make individuals become healthier and more optimistic, and
ultimately enjoy a happier life. However, most of those studies are not only
restricted in scale, but also may carry biases by using subjective
self-reports, interviews, and questionnaires as the major approaches. In this
paper, we leverage large-scale data collected from social media and the
state-of-the-art deep learning technologies to study this phenomenon in depth
and breadth. Our study includes four major steps: 1) collecting timeline posts
from around 20,000 Instagram users, 2) using face detection and recognition on
2-million photos to infer users' demographics, relationship status, and whether
having children, 3) analyzing a user's degree of happiness based on images and
captions via smiling classification and textual sentiment analysis, 3) applying
transfer learning techniques to retrain the final layer of the Inception v3
model for pet classification, and 4) analyzing the effects of pets on happiness
in terms of multiple factors of user demographics. Our main results have
demonstrated the efficacy of our proposed method with many new insights. We
believe this method is also applicable to other domains as a scalable,
efficient, and effective methodology for modeling and analyzing social
behaviors and psychological well-being. In addition, to facilitate the research
involving human faces, we also release our dataset of 700K analyzed faces.


Deciphering the 2016 U.S. Presidential Campaign in the Twitter Sphere: A
  Comparison of the Trumpists and Clintonists

  In this paper, we study follower demographics of Donald Trump and Hillary
Clinton, the two leading candidates in the 2016 U.S. presidential race. We
build a unique dataset US2016, which includes the number of followers for each
candidate from September 17, 2015 to December 22, 2015. US2016 also includes
the geographical location of these followers, the number of their own followers
and, very importantly, the profile image of each follower. We use individuals'
number of followers and profile images to analyze four dimensions of follower
demographics: social status, gender, race and age. Our study shows that in
terms of social influence, the Trumpists are more polarized than the
Clintonists: they tend to have either a lot of influence or little influence.
We also find that compared with the Clintonists, the Trumpists are more likely
to be either very young or very old. Our study finds no gender affinity effect
for Clinton in the Twitter sphere, but we do find that the Clintonists are more
racially diverse.


Image Captioning with Semantic Attention

  Automatically generating a natural language description of an image has
attracted interests recently both because of its importance in practical
applications and because it connects two major artificial intelligence fields:
computer vision and natural language processing. Existing approaches are either
top-down, which start from a gist of an image and convert it into words, or
bottom-up, which come up with words describing various aspects of an image and
then combine them. In this paper, we propose a new algorithm that combines both
approaches through a model of semantic attention. Our algorithm learns to
selectively attend to semantic concept proposals and fuse them into hidden
states and outputs of recurrent neural networks. The selection and fusion form
a feedback connecting the top-down and bottom-up computation. We evaluate our
algorithm on two public benchmarks: Microsoft COCO and Flickr30K. Experimental
results show that our algorithm significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art
approaches consistently across different evaluation metrics.


Tactics and Tallies: A Study of the 2016 U.S. Presidential Campaign
  Using Twitter 'Likes'

  We propose a framework to measure, evaluate, and rank campaign effectiveness
in the ongoing 2016 U.S. presidential election. Using Twitter data collected
from Sept. 2015 to Jan. 2016, we first uncover the tweeting tactics of the
candidates and second, using negative binomial regression and exploiting the
variations in 'likes,' we evaluate the effectiveness of these tactics. Thirdly,
we rank the candidates' campaign tactics by calculating the conditional
expectation of their generated 'likes.'
  We show that while Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio put much weight on President
Obama, this tactic is not being well received by their supporters. We
demonstrate that Hillary Clinton's tactic of linking herself to President Obama
resonates well with her supporters but the same is not true for Bernie Sanders.
In addition, we show that Donald Trump is a major topic for all the other
candidates and that the women issue is equally emphasized in Sanders' campaign
as in Clinton's.
  Finally, we suggest two ways that politicians can use the feedback mechanism
in social media to improve their campaign: (1) use feedback from social media
to improve campaign tactics within social media; (2) prototype policies and
test the public response from the social media.


Deep Multimodal Representation Learning from Temporal Data

  In recent years, Deep Learning has been successfully applied to multimodal
learning problems, with the aim of learning useful joint representations in
data fusion applications. When the available modalities consist of time series
data such as video, audio and sensor signals, it becomes imperative to consider
their temporal structure during the fusion process. In this paper, we propose
the Correlational Recurrent Neural Network (CorrRNN), a novel temporal fusion
model for fusing multiple input modalities that are inherently temporal in
nature. Key features of our proposed model include: (i) simultaneous learning
of the joint representation and temporal dependencies between modalities, (ii)
use of multiple loss terms in the objective function, including a maximum
correlation loss term to enhance learning of cross-modal information, and (iii)
the use of an attention model to dynamically adjust the contribution of
different input modalities to the joint representation. We validate our model
via experimentation on two different tasks: video- and sensor-based activity
classification, and audio-visual speech recognition. We empirically analyze the
contributions of different components of the proposed CorrRNN model, and
demonstrate its robustness, effectiveness and state-of-the-art performance on
multiple datasets.


Using User Generated Online Photos to Estimate and Monitor Air Pollution
  in Major Cities

  With the rapid development of economy in China over the past decade, air
pollution has become an increasingly serious problem in major cities and caused
grave public health concerns in China. Recently, a number of studies have dealt
with air quality and air pollution. Among them, some attempt to predict and
monitor the air quality from different sources of information, ranging from
deployed physical sensors to social media. These methods are either too
expensive or unreliable, prompting us to search for a novel and effective way
to sense the air quality. In this study, we propose to employ the state of the
art in computer vision techniques to analyze photos that can be easily acquired
from online social media. Next, we establish the correlation between the haze
level computed directly from photos with the official PM 2.5 record of the
taken city at the taken time. Our experiments based on both synthetic and real
photos have shown the promise of this image-based approach to estimating and
monitoring air pollution.


User-Curated Image Collections: Modeling and Recommendation

  Most state-of-the-art image retrieval and recommendation systems
predominantly focus on individual images. In contrast, socially curated image
collections, condensing distinctive yet coherent images into one set, are
largely overlooked by the research communities. In this paper, we aim to design
a novel recommendation system that can provide users with image collections
relevant to individual personal preferences and interests. To this end, two key
issues need to be addressed, i.e., image collection modeling and similarity
measurement. For image collection modeling, we consider each image collection
as a whole in a group sparse reconstruction framework and extract concise
collection descriptors given the pretrained dictionaries. We then consider
image collection recommendation as a dynamic similarity measurement problem in
response to user's clicked image set, and employ a metric learner to measure
the similarity between the image collection and the clicked image set. As there
is no previous work directly comparable to this study, we implement several
competitive baselines and related methods for comparison. The evaluations on a
large scale Pinterest data set have validated the effectiveness of our proposed
methods for modeling and recommending image collections.


Tracking Illicit Drug Dealing and Abuse on Instagram using Multimodal
  Analysis

  Illicit drug trade via social media sites, especially photo-oriented
Instagram, has become a severe problem in recent years. As a result, tracking
drug dealing and abuse on Instagram is of interest to law enforcement agencies
and public health agencies. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to
detecting drug abuse and dealing automatically by utilizing multimodal data on
social media. This approach also enables us to identify drug-related posts and
analyze the behavior patterns of drug-related user accounts. To better utilize
multimodal data on social media, multimodal analysis methods including
multitask learning and decision-level fusion are employed in our framework.
Experiment results on expertly labeled data have demonstrated the effectiveness
of our approach, as well as its scalability and reproducibility over
labor-intensive conventional approaches.


When Do Luxury Cars Hit the Road? Findings by A Big Data Approach

  In this paper, we focus on studying the appearing time of different kinds of
cars on the road. This information will enable us to infer the life style of
the car owners. The results can further be used to guide marketing towards car
owners. Conventionally, this kind of study is carried out by sending out
questionnaires, which is limited in scale and diversity. To solve this problem,
we propose a fully automatic method to carry out this study. Our study is based
on publicly available surveillance camera data. To make the results reliable,
we only use the high resolution cameras (i.e. resolution greater than $1280
\times 720$). Images from the public cameras are downloaded every minute. After
obtaining 50,000 images, we apply faster R-CNN (region-based convoluntional
neural network) to detect the cars in the downloaded images and a fine-tuned
VGG16 model is used to recognize the car makes. Based on the recognition
results, we present a data-driven analysis on the relationship between car
makes and their appearing times, with implications on lifestyles.


Pricing the Woman Card: Gender Politics between Hillary Clinton and
  Donald Trump

  In this paper, we propose a data-driven method to measure the impact of the
'woman card' exchange between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump. Building from a
unique dataset of the two candidates' Twitter followers, we first examine the
transition dynamics of the two candidates' Twitter followers one week before
the exchange and one week after. Then we train a convolutional neural network
to classify the gender of the followers and unfollowers, and study how women in
particular are reacting to the 'woman card' exchange. Our study suggests that
the 'woman card' comment has made women more likely to follow Hillary Clinton,
less likely to unfollow her and that it has apparently not affected the gender
composition of Trump followers.


Will Sanders Supporters Jump Ship for Trump? Fine-grained Analysis of
  Twitter Followers

  In this paper, we study the likelihood of Bernie Sanders supporters voting
for Donald Trump instead of Hillary Clinton. Building from a unique time-series
dataset of the three candidates' Twitter followers, which we make public here,
we first study the proportion of Sanders followers who simultaneously follow
Trump (but not Clinton) and how this evolves over time. Then we train a
convolutional neural network to classify the gender of Sanders followers, and
study whether men are more likely to jump ship for Trump than women. Our study
shows that between March and May an increasing proportion of Sanders followers
are following Trump (but not Clinton). The proportion of Sanders followers who
follow Clinton but not Trump has actually decreased. Equally important, our
study suggests that the jumping ship behavior will be affected by gender and
that men are more likely to switch to Trump than women.


Using Social Media to Promote STEM Education: Matching College Students
  with Role Models

  STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) fields have become
increasingly central to U.S. economic competitiveness and growth. The shortage
in the STEM workforce has brought promoting STEM education upfront. The rapid
growth of social media usage provides a unique opportunity to predict users'
real-life identities and interests from online texts and photos. In this paper,
we propose an innovative approach by leveraging social media to promote STEM
education: matching Twitter college student users with diverse LinkedIn STEM
professionals using a ranking algorithm based on the similarities of their
demographics and interests. We share the belief that increasing STEM presence
in the form of introducing career role models who share similar interests and
demographics will inspire students to develop interests in STEM related fields
and emulate their models. Our evaluation on 2,000 real college students
demonstrated the accuracy of our ranking algorithm. We also design a novel
implementation that recommends matched role models to the students.


Mining Fashion Outfit Composition Using An End-to-End Deep Learning
  Approach on Set Data

  Composing fashion outfits involves deep understanding of fashion standards
while incorporating creativity for choosing multiple fashion items (e.g.,
Jewelry, Bag, Pants, Dress). In fashion websites, popular or high-quality
fashion outfits are usually designed by fashion experts and followed by large
audiences. In this paper, we propose a machine learning system to compose
fashion outfits automatically. The core of the proposed automatic composition
system is to score fashion outfit candidates based on the appearances and
meta-data. We propose to leverage outfit popularity on fashion oriented
websites to supervise the scoring component. The scoring component is a
multi-modal multi-instance deep learning system that evaluates instance
aesthetics and set compatibility simultaneously. In order to train and evaluate
the proposed composition system, we have collected a large scale fashion outfit
dataset with 195K outfits and 368K fashion items from Polyvore. Although the
fashion outfit scoring and composition is rather challenging, we have achieved
an AUC of 85% for the scoring component, and an accuracy of 77% for a
constrained composition task.


Do They All Look the Same? Deciphering Chinese, Japanese and Koreans by
  Fine-Grained Deep Learning

  We study to what extend Chinese, Japanese and Korean faces can be classified
and which facial attributes offer the most important cues. First, we propose a
novel way of obtaining large numbers of facial images with nationality labels.
Then we train state-of-the-art neural networks with these labeled images. We
are able to achieve an accuracy of 75.03% in the classification task, with
chances being 33.33% and human accuracy 38.89% . Further, we train multiple
facial attribute classifiers to identify the most distinctive features for each
group. We find that Chinese, Japanese and Koreans do exhibit substantial
differences in certain attributes, such as bangs, smiling, and bushy eyebrows.
Along the way, we uncover several gender-related cross-country patterns as
well. Our work, which complements existing APIs such as Microsoft Cognitive
Services and Face++, could find potential applications in tourism, e-commerce,
social media marketing, criminal justice and even counter-terrorism.


Gender Politics in the 2016 U.S. Presidential Election: A Computer
  Vision Approach

  Gender is playing an important role in the 2016 U.S. presidential election,
especially with Hillary Clinton becoming the first female presidential nominee
and Donald Trump being frequently accused of sexism. In this paper, we
introduce computer vision to the study of gender politics and present an
image-driven method that can measure the effects of gender in an accurate and
timely manner. We first collect all the profile images of the candidates'
Twitter followers. Then we train a convolutional neural network using images
that contain gender labels. Lastly, we classify all the follower and unfollower
images. Through two case studies, one on the `woman card' controversy and one
on Sanders followers, we demonstrate how gender is informing the 2016
presidential election. Our framework of analysis can be readily generalized to
other case studies and elections.


Tactics and Tallies: Inferring Voter Preferences in the 2016 U.S.
  Presidential Primaries Using Sparse Learning

  In this paper, we propose a web-centered framework to infer voter preferences
for the 2016 U.S. presidential primaries. Using Twitter data collected from
Sept. 2015 to March 2016, we first uncover the tweeting tactics of the
candidates and then exploit the variations in the number of 'likes' to infer
voters' preference. With sparse learning, we are able to reveal neutral topics
as well as positive and negative ones.
  Methodologically, we are able to achieve a higher predictive power with
sparse learning. Substantively, we show that for Hillary Clinton the (only)
positive issue area is women's rights. We demonstrate that Hillary Clinton's
tactic of linking herself to President Obama resonates well with her supporters
but the same is not true for Bernie Sanders. In addition, we show that Donald
Trump is a major topic for all the other candidates, and that the women's
rights issue is equally emphasized in Sanders' campaign as in Clinton's.


When Fashion Meets Big Data: Discriminative Mining of Best Selling
  Clothing Features

  With the prevalence of e-commence websites and the ease of online shopping,
consumers are embracing huge amounts of various options in products.
Undeniably, shopping is one of the most essential activities in our society and
studying consumer's shopping behavior is important for the industry as well as
sociology and psychology. Indisputable, one of the most popular e-commerce
categories is clothing business. There arises the needs for analysis of popular
and attractive clothing features which could further boost many emerging
applications, such as clothing recommendation and advertising. In this work, we
design a novel system that consists of three major components: 1) exploring and
organizing a large-scale clothing dataset from a online shopping website, 2)
pruning and extracting images of best-selling products in clothing item data
and user transaction history, and 3) utilizing a machine learning based
approach to discovering fine-grained clothing attributes as the representative
and discriminative characteristics of popular clothing style elements. Through
the experiments over a large-scale online clothing shopping dataset, we
demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed system, and obtain useful
insights on clothing consumption trends and profitable clothing features.


When Saliency Meets Sentiment: Understanding How Image Content Invokes
  Emotion and Sentiment

  Sentiment analysis is crucial for extracting social signals from social media
content. Due to the prevalence of images in social media, image sentiment
analysis is receiving increasing attention in recent years. However, most
existing systems are black-boxes that do not provide insight on how image
content invokes sentiment and emotion in the viewers. Psychological studies
have confirmed that salient objects in an image often invoke emotions. In this
work, we investigate more fine-grained and more comprehensive interaction
between visual saliency and visual sentiment. In particular, we partition
images in several primary scene-type dimensions, including: open-closed,
natural-manmade, indoor-outdoor, and face-noface. Using state of the art
saliency detection algorithm and sentiment classification algorithm, we examine
how the sentiment of the salient region(s) in an image relates to the overall
sentiment of the image. The experiments on a representative image emotion
dataset have shown interesting correlation between saliency and sentiment in
different scene types and in turn shed light on the mechanism of visual
sentiment evocation.


Solving Cold-Start Problem in Large-scale Recommendation Engines: A Deep
  Learning Approach

  Collaborative Filtering (CF) is widely used in large-scale recommendation
engines because of its efficiency, accuracy and scalability. However, in
practice, the fact that recommendation engines based on CF require interactions
between users and items before making recommendations, make it inappropriate
for new items which haven't been exposed to the end users to interact with.
This is known as the cold-start problem. In this paper we introduce a novel
approach which employs deep learning to tackle this problem in any CF based
recommendation engine. One of the most important features of the proposed
technique is the fact that it can be applied on top of any existing CF based
recommendation engine without changing the CF core. We successfully applied
this technique to overcome the item cold-start problem in Careerbuilder's CF
based recommendation engine. Our experiments show that the proposed technique
is very efficient to resolve the cold-start problem while maintaining high
accuracy of the CF recommendations.


Image Based Appraisal of Real Estate Properties

  Real estate appraisal, which is the process of estimating the price for real
estate properties, is crucial for both buys and sellers as the basis for
negotiation and transaction. Traditionally, the repeat sales model has been
widely adopted to estimate real estate price. However, it depends the design
and calculation of a complex economic related index, which is challenging to
estimate accurately. Today, real estate brokers provide easy access to detailed
online information on real estate properties to their clients. We are
interested in estimating the real estate price from these large amounts of
easily accessed data. In particular, we analyze the prediction power of online
house pictures, which is one of the key factors for online users to make a
potential visiting decision. The development of robust computer vision
algorithms makes the analysis of visual content possible. In this work, we
employ a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) to predict real estate price using the
state-of-the-art visual features. The experimental results indicate that our
model outperforms several of other state-of-the-art baseline algorithms in
terms of both mean absolute error (MAE) and mean absolute percentage error
(MAPE).


What the Language You Tweet Says About Your Occupation

  Many aspects of people's lives are proven to be deeply connected to their
jobs. In this paper, we first investigate the distinct characteristics of major
occupation categories based on tweets. From multiple social media platforms, we
gather several types of user information. From users' LinkedIn webpages, we
learn their proficiencies. To overcome the ambiguity of self-reported
information, a soft clustering approach is applied to extract occupations from
crowd-sourced data. Eight job categories are extracted, including Marketing,
Administrator, Start-up, Editor, Software Engineer, Public Relation, Office
Clerk, and Designer. Meanwhile, users' posts on Twitter provide cues for
understanding their linguistic styles, interests, and personalities. Our
results suggest that people of different jobs have unique tendencies in certain
language styles and interests. Our results also clearly reveal distinctive
levels in terms of Big Five Traits for different jobs. Finally, a classifier is
built to predict job types based on the features extracted from tweets. A high
accuracy indicates a strong discrimination power of language features for job
prediction task.


Tales of Two Cities: Using Social Media to Understand Idiosyncratic
  Lifestyles in Distinctive Metropolitan Areas

  Lifestyles are a valuable model for understanding individuals' physical and
mental lives, comparing social groups, and making recommendations for improving
people's lives. In this paper, we examine and compare lifestyle behaviors of
people living in cities of different sizes, utilizing freely available social
media data as a large-scale, low-cost alternative to traditional survey
methods. We use the Greater New York City area as a representative for large
cities, and the Greater Rochester area as a representative for smaller cities
in the United States. We employed matrix factor analysis as an unsupervised
method to extract salient mobility and work-rest patterns for a large
population of users within each metropolitan area. We discovered interesting
human behavior patterns at both a larger scale and a finer granularity than is
present in previous literature, some of which allow us to quantitatively
compare the behaviors of individuals of living in big cities to those living in
small cities. We believe that our social media-based approach to lifestyle
analysis represents a powerful tool for social computing in the big data age.


Detection and Analysis of 2016 US Presidential Election Related Rumors
  on Twitter

  The 2016 U.S. presidential election has witnessed the major role of Twitter
in the year's most important political event. Candidates used this social media
platform extensively for online campaigns. Meanwhile, social media has been
filled with rumors, which might have had huge impacts on voters' decisions. In
this paper, we present a thorough analysis of rumor tweets from the followers
of two presidential candidates: Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump. To overcome
the difficulty of labeling a large amount of tweets as training data, we detect
rumor tweets by matching them with verified rumor articles. We analyze over 8
million tweets collected from the followers of the two candidates. Our results
provide answers to several primary concerns about rumors in this election,
including: which side of the followers posted the most rumors, who posted these
rumors, what rumors they posted, and when they posted these rumors. The
insights of this paper can help us understand the online rumor behaviors in
American politics.


Learning from Noisy Labels with Distillation

  The ability of learning from noisy labels is very useful in many visual
recognition tasks, as a vast amount of data with noisy labels are relatively
easy to obtain. Traditionally, the label noises have been treated as
statistical outliers, and approaches such as importance re-weighting and
bootstrap have been proposed to alleviate the problem. According to our
observation, the real-world noisy labels exhibit multi-mode characteristics as
the true labels, rather than behaving like independent random outliers. In this
work, we propose a unified distillation framework to use side information,
including a small clean dataset and label relations in knowledge graph, to
"hedge the risk" of learning from noisy labels. Furthermore, unlike the
traditional approaches evaluated based on simulated label noises, we propose a
suite of new benchmark datasets, in Sports, Species and Artifacts domains, to
evaluate the task of learning from noisy labels in the practical setting. The
empirical study demonstrates the effectiveness of our proposed method in all
the domains.


A World of Difference: Divergent Word Interpretations among People

  Divergent word usages reflect differences among people. In this paper, we
present a novel angle for studying word usage divergence -- word
interpretations. We propose an approach that quantifies semantic differences in
interpretations among different groups of people. The effectiveness of our
approach is validated by quantitative evaluations. Experiment results indicate
that divergences in word interpretations exist. We further apply the approach
to two well studied types of differences between people -- gender and region.
The detected words with divergent interpretations reveal the unique features of
specific groups of people. For gender, we discover that certain different
interests, social attitudes, and characters between males and females are
reflected in their divergent interpretations of many words. For region, we find
that specific interpretations of certain words reveal the geographical and
cultural features of different regions.


Spice up Your Chat: The Intentions and Sentiment Effects of Using Emoji

  Emojis, as a new way of conveying nonverbal cues, are widely adopted in
computer-mediated communications. In this paper, first from a message sender
perspective, we focus on people's motives in using four types of emojis --
positive, neutral, negative, and non-facial. We compare the willingness levels
of using these emoji types for seven typical intentions that people usually
apply nonverbal cues for in communication. The results of extensive statistical
hypothesis tests not only report the popularities of the intentions, but also
uncover the subtle differences between emoji types in terms of intended uses.
Second, from a perspective of message recipients, we further study the
sentiment effects of emojis, as well as their duplications, on verbal messages.
Different from previous studies in emoji sentiment, we study the sentiments of
emojis and their contexts as a whole. The experiment results indicate that the
powers of conveying sentiment are different between four emoji types, and the
sentiment effects of emojis vary in the contexts of different valences.


Detecting the Hate Code on Social Media

  Social media has become an indispensable part of the everyday lives of
millions of people around the world. It provides a platform for expressing
opinions and beliefs, communicated to a massive audience. However, this ease
with which people can express themselves has also allowed for the large scale
spread of propaganda and hate speech. To prevent violating the abuse policies
of social media platforms and also to avoid detection by automatic systems like
Google's Conversation AI, racists have begun to use a code (a movement termed
Operation Google). This involves substituting references to communities by
benign words that seem out of context, in hate filled posts or Tweets. For
example, users have used the words Googles and Bings to represent the
African-American and Asian communities, respectively. By generating the list of
users who post such content, we move a step forward from classifying tweets by
allowing us to study the usage pattern of these concentrated set of users.


How Polarized Have We Become? A Multimodal Classification of Trump
  Followers and Clinton Followers

  Polarization in American politics has been extensively documented and
analyzed for decades, and the phenomenon became all the more apparent during
the 2016 presidential election, where Trump and Clinton depicted two radically
different pictures of America. Inspired by this gaping polarization and the
extensive utilization of Twitter during the 2016 presidential campaign, in this
paper we take the first step in measuring polarization in social media and we
attempt to predict individuals' Twitter following behavior through analyzing
ones' everyday tweets, profile images and posted pictures. As such, we treat
polarization as a classification problem and study to what extent Trump
followers and Clinton followers on Twitter can be distinguished, which in turn
serves as a metric of polarization in general. We apply LSTM to processing
tweet features and we extract visual features using the VGG neural network.
Integrating these two sets of features boosts the overall performance. We are
able to achieve an accuracy of 69%, suggesting that the high degree of
polarization recorded in the literature has started to manifest itself in
social media as well.


When Celebrities Endorse Politicians: Analyzing the Behavior of
  Celebrity Followers in the 2016 U.S. Presidential Election

  Thanks to their name recognition and popularity, celebrities play an
important role in American politics. Celebrity endorsements could add to the
momentum of a politician's campaign and win the candidate extensive media
coverage. There is one caveat though: the political preference of celebrity
followers might differ from that of the celebrity. In this paper we explore
that possibility. By carefully studying six prominent endorsements to the
leading presidential candidates in the 2016 U.S. presidential election and
statistically modeling Twitter "follow" behavior, we show (1) followers of all
the celebrities with the exception of Lady Gaga are more likely to follow a
large number of candidates and (2) the opinion of celebrity followers could
systematically differ from that of the celebrity. Our methodology can be
generalized to the study of such events as NBA players' refusing to visit the
White House and pop singers' meeting with Dalai Lama.


Boundary-based Image Forgery Detection by Fast Shallow CNN

  Image forgery detection is the task of detecting and localizing forged parts
in tampered images. Previous works mostly focus on high resolution images using
traces of resampling features, demosaicing features or sharpness of edges.
However, a good detection method should also be applicable to low resolution
images because compressed or resized images are common these days. To this end,
we propose a Shallow Convolutional Neural Network(SCNN), capable of
distinguishing the boundaries of forged regions from original edges in low
resolution images. SCNN is designed to utilize the information of chroma and
saturation. Based on SCNN, two approaches that are named Sliding Windows
Detection (SWD) and Fast SCNN, respectively, are developed to detect and
localize image forgery region. In this paper, we substantiate that Fast SCNN
can detect drastic change of chroma and saturation. In image forgery detection
experiments Our model is evaluated on the CASIA 2.0 dataset. The results show
that Fast SCNN performs well on low resolution images and achieves significant
improvements over the state-of-the-art.


Image Captioning at Will: A Versatile Scheme for Effectively Injecting
  Sentiments into Image Descriptions

  Automatic image captioning has recently approached human-level performance
due to the latest advances in computer vision and natural language
understanding. However, most of the current models can only generate plain
factual descriptions about the content of a given image. However, for human
beings, image caption writing is quite flexible and diverse, where additional
language dimensions, such as emotion, humor and language styles, are often
incorporated to produce diverse, emotional, or appealing captions. In
particular, we are interested in generating sentiment-conveying image
descriptions, which has received little attention. The main challenge is how to
effectively inject sentiments into the generated captions without altering the
semantic matching between the visual content and the generated descriptions. In
this work, we propose two different models, which employ different schemes for
injecting sentiments into image captions. Compared with the few existing
approaches, the proposed models are much simpler and yet more effective. The
experimental results show that our model outperform the state-of-the-art models
in generating sentimental (i.e., sentiment-bearing) image captions. In
addition, we can also easily manipulate the model by assigning different
sentiments to the testing image to generate captions with the corresponding
sentiments.


The Great Division

  When information flow fails, when Democrats and Republicans do not talk to
each other, when Israelis and Palestinians do not talk to each other, and when
North Koreans and South Koreans do not talk to each other, mis-perceptions,
biases and fake news arise. In this paper we present an in-depth study of
political polarization and social division using Twitter data and Monte Carlo
simulations. First, we study at the aggregate level people's inclination to
retweet within their own ideological circle. Introducing the concept of cocoon
ratio, we show that Donald Trump's followers are 2.56 more likely to retweet a
fellow Trump follower than to retweet a Hillary Clinton follower. Second, going
down to the individual level, we show that the tendency of retweeting
exclusively within one's ideological circle is stronger for women than for men
and that such tendency weakens as one's social capital grows. Third, we use a
one-dimensional Ising model to simulate how a society with high cocoon ratios
could end up becoming completely divided. We conclude with a discussion of our
findings with respect to fake news.


VizWiz Grand Challenge: Answering Visual Questions from Blind People

  The study of algorithms to automatically answer visual questions currently is
motivated by visual question answering (VQA) datasets constructed in artificial
VQA settings. We propose VizWiz, the first goal-oriented VQA dataset arising
from a natural VQA setting. VizWiz consists of over 31,000 visual questions
originating from blind people who each took a picture using a mobile phone and
recorded a spoken question about it, together with 10 crowdsourced answers per
visual question. VizWiz differs from the many existing VQA datasets because (1)
images are captured by blind photographers and so are often poor quality, (2)
questions are spoken and so are more conversational, and (3) often visual
questions cannot be answered. Evaluation of modern algorithms for answering
visual questions and deciding if a visual question is answerable reveals that
VizWiz is a challenging dataset. We introduce this dataset to encourage a
larger community to develop more generalized algorithms that can assist blind
people.


Sleep-deprived Fatigue Pattern Analysis using Large-Scale Selfies from
  Social Med

  The complexities of fatigue have drawn much attention from researchers across
various disciplines. Short-term fatigue may cause safety issue while driving;
thus, dynamic systems were designed to track driver fatigue. Long-term fatigue
could lead to chronic syndromes, and eventually affect individuals physical and
psychological health. Traditional methodologies of evaluating fatigue not only
require sophisticated equipment but also consume enormous time. In this paper,
we attempt to develop a novel and efficient method to predict individual's
fatigue rate by scrutinizing human facial cues. Our goal is to predict fatigue
rate based on a selfie. To associate the fatigue rate with user behaviors, we
have collected nearly 1-million timeline posts from 10,480 users on Instagram.
We first detect all the faces and identify their demographics using automatic
algorithms. Next, we investigate the fatigue distribution by weekday over
different age, gender, and ethnic groups. This work represents a promising way
to assess sleep-deprived fatigue, and our study provides a viable and efficient
computational framework for user fatigue modeling in large-scale via social
media.


Touch Your Heart: A Tone-aware Chatbot for Customer Care on Social Media

  Chatbot has become an important solution to rapidly increasing customer care
demands on social media in recent years. However, current work on chatbot for
customer care ignores a key to impact user experience - tones. In this work, we
create a novel tone-aware chatbot that generates toned responses to user
requests on social media. We first conduct a formative research, in which the
effects of tones are studied. Significant and various influences of different
tones on user experience are uncovered in the study. With the knowledge of
effects of tones, we design a deep learning based chatbot that takes tone
information into account. We train our system on over 1.5 million real customer
care conversations collected from Twitter. The evaluation reveals that our
tone-aware chatbot generates as appropriate responses to user requests as human
agents. More importantly, our chatbot is perceived to be even more empathetic
than human agents.


VQA-E: Explaining, Elaborating, and Enhancing Your Answers for Visual
  Questions

  Most existing works in visual question answering (VQA) are dedicated to
improving the accuracy of predicted answers, while disregarding the
explanations. We argue that the explanation for an answer is of the same or
even more importance compared with the answer itself, since it makes the
question and answering process more understandable and traceable. To this end,
we propose a new task of VQA-E (VQA with Explanation), where the computational
models are required to generate an explanation with the predicted answer. We
first construct a new dataset, and then frame the VQA-E problem in a multi-task
learning architecture. Our VQA-E dataset is automatically derived from the VQA
v2 dataset by intelligently exploiting the available captions. We have
conducted a user study to validate the quality of explanations synthesized by
our method. We quantitatively show that the additional supervision from
explanations can not only produce insightful textual sentences to justify the
answers, but also improve the performance of answer prediction. Our model
outperforms the state-of-the-art methods by a clear margin on the VQA v2
dataset.


Life in the "Matrix": Human Mobility Patterns in the Cyber Space

  With the wide adoption of the multi-community setting in many popular social
media platforms, the increasing user engagements across multiple online
communities warrant research attention. In this paper, we introduce a novel
analogy between the movements in the cyber space and the physical space. This
analogy implies a new way of studying human online activities by modelling the
activities across online communities in a similar fashion as the movements
among locations. First, we quantitatively validate the analogy by comparing
several important properties of human online activities and physical movements.
Our experiments reveal striking similarities between the cyber space and the
physical space. Next, inspired by the established methodology on human mobility
in the physical space, we propose a framework to study human "mobility" across
online platforms. We discover three interesting patterns of user engagements in
online communities. Furthermore, our experiments indicate that people with
different mobility patterns also exhibit divergent preferences to online
communities. This work not only attempts to achieve a better understanding of
human online activities, but also intends to open a promising research
direction with rich implications and applications.


Mining the Relationship between Emoji Usage Patterns and Personality

  Emojis have been widely used in textual communications as a new way to convey
nonverbal cues. An interesting observation is the various emoji usage patterns
among different users. In this paper, we investigate the correlation between
user personality traits and their emoji usage patterns, particularly on overall
amounts and specific preferences. To achieve this goal, we build a large
Twitter dataset which includes 352,245 users and over 1.13 billion tweets
associated with calculated personality traits and emoji usage patterns. Our
correlation and emoji prediction results provide insights into the power of
diverse personalities that lead to varies emoji usage patterns as well as its
potential in emoji recommendation tasks.


Online Deep Metric Learning

  Metric learning learns a metric function from training data to calculate the
similarity or distance between samples. From the perspective of feature
learning, metric learning essentially learns a new feature space by feature
transformation (e.g., Mahalanobis distance metric). However, traditional metric
learning algorithms are shallow, which just learn one metric space (feature
transformation). Can we further learn a better metric space from the learnt
metric space? In other words, can we learn metric progressively and nonlinearly
like deep learning by just using the existing metric learning algorithms? To
this end, we present a hierarchical metric learning scheme and implement an
online deep metric learning framework, namely ODML. Specifically, we take one
online metric learning algorithm as a metric layer, followed by a nonlinear
layer (i.e., ReLU), and then stack these layers modelled after the deep
learning. The proposed ODML enjoys some nice properties, indeed can learn
metric progressively and performs superiorly on some datasets. Various
experiments with different settings have been conducted to verify these
properties of the proposed ODML.


Twitter Sentiment Analysis via Bi-sense Emoji Embedding and
  Attention-based LSTM

  Sentiment analysis on large-scale social media data is important to bridge
the gaps between social media contents and real world activities including
political election prediction, individual and public emotional status
monitoring and analysis, and so on. Although textual sentiment analysis has
been well studied based on platforms such as Twitter and Instagram, analysis of
the role of extensive emoji uses in sentiment analysis remains light. In this
paper, we propose a novel scheme for Twitter sentiment analysis with extra
attention on emojis. We first learn bi-sense emoji embeddings under positive
and negative sentimental tweets individually, and then train a sentiment
classifier by attending on these bi-sense emoji embeddings with an
attention-based long short-term memory network (LSTM). Our experiments show
that the bi-sense embedding is effective for extracting sentiment-aware
embeddings of emojis and outperforms the state-of-the-art models. We also
visualize the attentions to show that the bi-sense emoji embedding provides
better guidance on the attention mechanism to obtain a more robust
understanding of the semantics and sentiments.


Attentive Relational Networks for Mapping Images to Scene Graphs

  Scene graph generation refers to the task of automatically mapping an image
into a semantic structural graph, which requires correctly labeling each
extracted object and their interaction relationships. Despite the recent
success in object detection using deep learning techniques, inferring complex
contextual relationships and structured graph representations from visual data
remains a challenging topic. In this study, we propose a novel Attentive
Relational Network that consists of two key modules with an object detection
backbone to approach this problem. The first module is a semantic
transformation module utilized to capture semantic embedded relation features,
by translating visual features and linguistic features into a common semantic
space. The other module is a graph self-attention module introduced to embed a
joint graph representation through assigning various importance weights to
neighboring nodes. Finally, accurate scene graphs are produced by the relation
inference module to recognize all entities and the corresponding relations. We
evaluate our proposed method on the widely-adopted Visual Genome Dataset, and
the results demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of our model.


Face Completion with Semantic Knowledge and Collaborative Adversarial
  Learning

  Unlike a conventional background inpainting approach that infers a missing
area from image patches similar to the background, face completion requires
semantic knowledge about the target object for realistic outputs. Current image
inpainting approaches utilize generative adversarial networks (GANs) to achieve
such semantic understanding. However, in adversarial learning, the semantic
knowledge is learned implicitly and hence good semantic understanding is not
always guaranteed. In this work, we propose a collaborative adversarial
learning approach to face completion to explicitly induce the training process.
Our method is formulated under a novel generative framework called
collaborative GAN (collaGAN), which allows better semantic understanding of a
target object through collaborative learning of multiple tasks including face
completion, landmark detection, and semantic segmentation. Together with the
collaGAN, we also introduce an inpainting concentrated scheme such that the
model emphasizes more on inpainting instead of autoencoding. Extensive
experiments show that the proposed designs are indeed effective and
collaborative adversarial learning provides better feature representations of
the faces. In comparison with other generative image inpainting models and
single task learning methods, our solution produces superior performances on
all tasks.


Adversarial Sparse-View CBCT Artifact Reduction

  We present an effective post-processing method to reduce the artifacts from
sparsely reconstructed cone-beam CT (CBCT) images. The proposed method is based
on the state-of-the-art, image-to-image generative models with a perceptual
loss as regulation. Unlike the traditional CT artifact-reduction approaches,
our method is trained in an adversarial fashion that yields more perceptually
realistic outputs while preserving the anatomical structures. To address the
streak artifacts that are inherently local and appear across various scales, we
further propose a novel discriminator architecture based on feature pyramid
networks and a differentially modulated focus map to induce the adversarial
training. Our experimental results show that the proposed method can greatly
correct the cone-beam artifacts from clinical CBCT images reconstructed using
1/3 projections, and outperforms strong baseline methods both quantitatively
and qualitatively.


