$U_q(\hat{\frak{gl}}_{{}_N})$ action on $\hat{\frak{gl}}_{{}_N}$
  -modules and quantum toroidal algebras

  We construct a vertex representation for the quantum toroidal algebra through
the quantum general linear algebra. Using a new realization of the quantum
general linear algebra we construct vertex operators for root vectors on the
basic representation of the affine Lie algebra $gl_n$ and show that the simple
generators give rise a realization of the quantum toroidal algebra with two
parameters.


A quantized Tits-Kantor-Koecher algebra

  We propose a quantum analogue of a Tits-Kantor-Koecher algebra with a Jordan
torus as an coordinated algebra by looking at the vertex operator construction
over a Fock space.


On multi-variable Zassenhaus formula

  In this paper, we give a recursive algorithm to compute the multivariable
Zassenhaus formula $$e^{X_1+X_2+\cdots +X_n}=e^{X_1}e^{X_2}\cdots
e^{X_n}\prod_{k=2}^{\infty}e^{W_k}$$ and derive an effective recursion formula
of $W_k$.


Asymptotic solvers for ordinary differential equations with multiple
  frequencies

  We construct asymptotic expansions for ordinary differential equations with
highly oscillatory forcing terms, focussing on the case of multiple,
non-commensurate frequencies. We derive an asymptotic expansion in inverse
powers of the oscillatory parameter and use its truncation as an exceedingly
effective means to discretize the differential equation in question. Numerical
examples illustrate the effectiveness of the method.


Phase-sensitive Manipulations of Squeezed Vacuum Field in an Optical
  Parametric Amplifier inside an Optical Cavity

  Squeezed vacuum field can be amplified or deamplified when it is injected, as
the signal beam, into a phase-sensitive optical parametric amplifier (OPA)
inside an optical cavity. The spectral features of the reflected quantized
signal field are controlled by the relative phase between the injected squeezed
vacuum field and the pump field for the OPA. The experimental results
demonstrate coherent phenomena of OPA in the quantum regime, and show
phase-sensitive manipulations of quantum fluctuations for quantum information
processing.


Twisted vertex operators and unitary Lie algebras

  A representation of the central extension of the unitary Lie algebra
coordinated with a skew Laurent polynomial ring is constructed using vertex
operators over an integral Z_2-lattice. The irreducible decomposition of the
representation is explicitly computed and described. As a by-product, some
fundamental representations of affine Kac-Moody Lie algebra of type $A_n^{(2)}$
are recovered by the new method.


Rota-Baxter operators on Witt and Virasoro algebras

  The homogeneous Rota-Baxter operators on the Witt and Virasoro algebras are
classified. As applications, the induced solutions of the classical Yang-Baxter
equation and the induced pre-Lie and PostLie algebra structures are obtained.


Topic Memory Networks for Short Text Classification

  Many classification models work poorly on short texts due to data sparsity.
To address this issue, we propose topic memory networks for short text
classification with a novel topic memory mechanism to encode latent topic
representations indicative of class labels. Different from most prior work that
focuses on extending features with external knowledge or pre-trained topics,
our model jointly explores topic inference and text classification with memory
networks in an end-to-end manner. Experimental results on four benchmark
datasets show that our model outperforms state-of-the-art models on short text
classification, meanwhile generates coherent topics.


What You Say and How You Say it: Joint Modeling of Topics and Discourse
  in Microblog Conversations

  This paper presents an unsupervised framework for jointly modeling topic
content and discourse behavior in microblog conversations. Concretely, we
propose a neural model to discover word clusters indicating what a conversation
concerns (i.e., topics) and those reflecting how participants voice their
opinions (i.e., discourse). Extensive experiments show that our model can yield
both coherent topics and meaningful discourse behavior. Further study shows
that our topic and discourse representations can benefit the classification of
microblog messages, especially when they are jointly trained with the
classifier.


Copper Replaces Tin: A Copper based Gelling Catalyst for Poly-Urethane
  from Discarded Motherboard

  A discarded motherboard based eco-friendly copper catalyst has been
programmed to replace the industrially used tin based catalyst DBTDL. The
catalyst has been characterized by UV-Vis spectroscopy, FT-IR and TEM. Using
the catalyst reaction conditions is optimized and under the optimized
condition, both polyurethane and polyurethane foam are prepared, thus proving
the generality of the catalyst to be used in industries. A possible mechanism
has also been proposed.


Fiber-based ultra-stable frequency synchronization using client-side,
  1f-2f active compensation method

  We demonstrate a frequency synchronization scheme with the phase noise
compensation function placed at the client site. One transmitting module hence
can be linked with multiple client sites. As a performance test, using two
separate 50 km fiber spools, we recover the 100 MHz disseminated reference
frequencies at two remote sites, separately. Relative frequency stabilities
between two recovered frequency signals of 2.8E-14/s and 2.5E-17/day are
obtained. This scalable scheme is suitable for the applications of frequency
dissemination with a star-topology, such as SKA and DSN.


An Iterative Minimization Formulation for Saddle-Point Search

  This paper proposes and analyzes an iterative minimization formulation for
search- ing index-1 saddle points of an energy function. This formulation
differs from other eigenvector-following methods by constructing a new
objective function near the guess at each iteration step. This leads to a
quadratic convergence rate, in comparison to the linear case of the gentlest
ascent dynamics (E and Zhou, nonlinearity, vol 24, p1831, 2011) and many other
existing methods. We also propose the generalization of the new methodology for
saddle points of higher index and for constrained energy functions on manifold.


Phase diagram and thermal properties of strong-interaction matter

  We introduce a novel procedure for computing the (mu,T)-dependent pressure in
continuum QCD; and therefrom obtain a complex phase diagram and predictions for
thermal properties of the system, providing the in-medium behaviour of the
trace anomaly, speed of sound, latent heat and heat capacity.


All-optical transistor based on Rydberg atom-assisted opto-mechanical
  system

  We study the optical response of double optomechanical cavity system assisted
by Rydberg atomic ensembles. And atomic ensembles are only coupled with one
side cavity by a single cavity mode. It has been realized that a long-range
manipulation for optical properties of hybrid system, by controlling the
Rydberg atomic ensembles decoupled with the optomechanical cavity. Switching on
the coupling between atoms and cavity mode, the original time reversal symmetry
of double cavity structure has been broken. Based on the controlled optical
non-reciprocity, we put forward the theoretical schemes of all-optical
controlled diode, rectifier and transistor.


Unsupervised Deep Structured Semantic Models for Commonsense Reasoning

  Commonsense reasoning is fundamental to natural language understanding. While
traditional methods rely heavily on human-crafted features and knowledge bases,
we explore learning commonsense knowledge from a large amount of raw text via
unsupervised learning. We propose two neural network models based on the Deep
Structured Semantic Models (DSSM) framework to tackle two classic commonsense
reasoning tasks, Winograd Schema challenges (WSC) and Pronoun Disambiguation
(PDP). Evaluation shows that the proposed models effectively capture contextual
information in the sentence and co-reference information between pronouns and
nouns, and achieve significant improvement over previous state-of-the-art
approaches.


Interface Ferromagnetism in (110)-Oriented La0.7Sr0.3MnO3/SrTiO3
  Ultrathin Superlattices

  We explore manganite interface magnetism in epitaxially grown
La0.7Sr0.3MnO3(LSMO)/SrTiO3 ultrathin superlattices (SL) along (110)
orientation. we show that robust ferromagnetism persists down to four
monolayers LSMO(MLs) (~1.1 nm in thickness), of which 50% Mn is at the
interface state. Above eight MLs, the magnetic moment is nearly saturated to
the theoretical value of 3.7u_B, with an estimated interface moment of 3.2u_B.
In comparison to (100)-oriented SLs which were previously shown to have a spin
canted ground state, (110)-oriented SLs exhibit stronger low-dimensional
ferromagnetism and better metallicity, suggesting a ferromagnetic interface
spin state well suited for all-oxide spintronic devices. The underlining
mechanism is qualitatively discussed.


The role of 245 phase in alkaline iron selenide superconductors revealed
  by high pressure studies

  Here we show that a pressure of about 8 GPa suppresses both the vacancy order
and the insulating phase, and a further increase of the pressure to about 18
GPa induces a second transition or crossover. No superconductivity has been
found in compressed insulating 245 phase. The metallic phase in the
intermediate pressure range has a distinct behavior in the transport property,
which is also observed in the superconducting sample. We interpret this
intermediate metal as an orbital selective Mott phase (OSMP). Our results
suggest that the OSMP provides the physical pathway connecting the insulating
and superconducting phases of these iron selenide materials.


Half-Metallic Silicene and Germanene Nanoribbons: towards
  High-Performance Spintronics Device

  By using first-principles calculations, we predict that an in-plane
homogenous electrical field can induce half-metallicity in hydrogen-terminated
zigzag silicene and germanene nanoribbons (ZSiNRs and ZGeNRs). A dual-gated
finite ZSiNR device reveals a nearly perfect spin-filter efficiency of up to
99% while a quadruple-gated finite ZSiNR device serves as an effective spin
field effect transistor (FET) with an on/off current ratio of over 100 from ab
initio quantum transport simulation. This discovery opens up novel prospect of
silicene and germanene in spintronics.


Liquid Metal Flow Can Be One Clue to Explain the Frequently Observed
  Fluid-Like Matters on Mars

  The frequently discovered flooding structure on Mars and other planets has
long been an intriguing mystery remained un-disclosed so far. Considering that
on Earth, quite a few low melting point liquid metals or their alloy can be
candidates of fluid like matters, we proposed here that there might also exists
certain liquid metal instead of water or methane alone on Mars or the like
planets. Compared with water, such liquid metal would be much easier to stay at
the Mars surface because of its low melting point however extremely high
evaporation point. Along this theoretical route, quite a few observations on
the fluid like matters in former space explorations can be well interpreted.
Such hypothesis for the existence of liquid metal on Mars surface does not mean
refuting the possibility of water on Mars. This new point would be helpful for
planning further exploration of Mars in a sense according to the characters of
liquid metal. It at least identifies one more target fluid towards either
finding or denying life at outer space. Whether the planet could harbor life in
some form or it reaffirms Mars as an important future destination for human
exploration still needs serious but not just enthusiasm explorations.


Robust antiferromagnetism preventing superconductivity in pressurized
  Ba0.61K0.39Mn2Bi2

  Here, we report that K-doped BaMn2Bi2 shows no experimental evidence of
superconductivity down to 1.5 K under pressures up to 35.6 GPa, however, a
tetragonal to an orthorhombic phase transition is observed at pressure of 20
GPa. Theoretical calculations for the tetragonal and orthorhombic phases, on
basis of our high-pressure XRD data, find that the AFM order is robust in both
of the phases in pressurized Ba0.61K0.39Mn2Bi2. Our experimental and
theoretical results suggest that the K-doped BaMn2Bi2 belongs to a strong Hunds
AFM metal with a hybridization of localized spin electrons and itinerant
electrons, and that its robust AFM order essentially prevents the emergence of
superconductivity.


Quantum internet using code division multiple access

  A crucial open problem in large-scale quantum networks is how to efficiently
transmit quantum data among many pairs of users via a common data-transmission
medium. We propose a solution by developing a quantum code division multiple
access (q-CDMA) approach in which quantum information is chaotically encoded to
spread its spectral content, and then decoded via chaos synchronization to
separate different sender-receiver pairs. In comparison to other existing
approaches, such as frequency division multiple access (FDMA), the proposed
q-CDMA can greatly increase the information rates per channel used, especially
for very noisy quantum channels.


Semi-coherent Detection and Performance Analysis for Ambient Backscatter
  System

  We study a novel communication mechanism, ambient backscatter, that utilizes
radio frequency (RF) signals transmitted from an ambient source as both energy
supply and information carrier to enable communications between low-power
devices. Different from existing non-coherent schemes, we here design the
semi-coherent detection, where channel parameters can be obtained from unknown
data symbols and a few pilot symbols. We first derive the optimal detector for
the complex Gaussian ambient RF signal from likelihood ratio test and compute
the corresponding closed-form bit error rate (BER). To release the requirement
for prior knowledge of the ambient RF signal, we next design a suboptimal
energy detector with ambient RF signals being either the complex Gaussian or
the phase shift keying (PSK). The corresponding detection thresholds, the
analytical BER, and the outage probability are also obtained in closed-form.
Interestingly, the complex Gaussian source would cause an error floor while the
PSK source does not, which brings nontrivial indication of constellation design
as opposed to the popular Gaussian-embedded literatures. Simulations are
provided to corroborate the theoretical studies.


Long-Term Memory Networks for Question Answering

  Question answering is an important and difficult task in the natural language
processing domain, because many basic natural language processing tasks can be
cast into a question answering task. Several deep neural network architectures
have been developed recently, which employ memory and inference components to
memorize and reason over text information, and generate answers to questions.
However, a major drawback of many such models is that they are capable of only
generating single-word answers. In addition, they require large amount of
training data to generate accurate answers. In this paper, we introduce the
Long-Term Memory Network (LTMN), which incorporates both an external memory
module and a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) module to comprehend the input data
and generate multi-word answers. The LTMN model can be trained end-to-end using
back-propagation and requires minimal supervision. We test our model on two
synthetic data sets (based on Facebook's bAbI data set) and the real-world
Stanford question answering data set, and show that it can achieve
state-of-the-art performance.


Orbital Angular Momentum for Wireless Communications

  As the traditional resources (frequency, time, space, etc.) are efficiently
utilized, it becomes more and more challenging to satisfy the ever-lasting
capacity-growing and users-boosting demand in wireless networks. Recently, the
electromagnetic (EM) wave was found to possess not only linear momentum, but
also angular momentum. The orbital angular momentum (OAM) is a kind of
wavefront with helical phase. The OAM-based vortex wave has different
topological charges, which are orthogonal to each other, bridging a new way for
multiple access in wireless communications. In this article, we introduce the
fundamental theory of OAM and the OAM based wireless communications. The
research challenges regarding OAM signal generation, OAM beam converging, and
OAM signal reception are discussed. Further, we propose a new multiuser access
with different OAM-modes in wireless networks, where multiple OAM-modes are
used as a new orthogonal dimension for interference avoidance. Simulation
results reveal the inherent property of OAM waves and show that OAM based radio
transmission can significantly increase the spectrum efficiency in wireless
networks.


The dark matter deficit galaxies in hydrodynamical simulations

  Low mass galaxies are expected to be dark matter dominated even within their
centrals. Recently two observations reported two dwarf galaxies in group
environment with very little dark matter in their centrals. We explore the
population and origins of dark matter deficit galaxies (DMDGs) in two
state-of-the-art hydrodynamical simulations, the EAGLE and Illustris projects.
For all satellite galaxies with $M_*>10^9$ M$_{\odot}$ in groups with
$M_{200}>10^{13}$ M$_{\odot}$, we find that about $5.0\%$ of them in the EAGLE,
and $3.2\%$ in the Illustris are DMDGs with dark matter fractions below $50\%$
inside two times half-stellar-mass radii. We demonstrate that DMDGs are highly
tidal disrupted galaxies; and because dark matter has higher binding energy
than stars, mass loss of the dark matter is much more rapid than stars in DMDGs
during tidal interactions. If DMDGs were confirmed in observations, they are
expected in current galaxy formation models.


Clustering-Based Codebook Design for MIMO Communication System

  Codebook design is one of the core technologies in limited feedback
multi-input multi-output (MIMO) communication systems. However, the
conventional codebook designs usually assume MIMO vectors are uniformly
distributed or isotropic. Motivated by the excellent classfication and analysis
ability of clustering algorithms, we propose a K-means clustering based
codebook design. First, large amounts of channel state information (CSI) is
stored as the input data of the clustering, and finally divided into N clusters
according to the minimal distance. The clustering centroids are used as the
statistic channel information of the codebook construction which the sum
distance is minimal to the real channel information. Simulation results consist
with theoretical analysis in terms of the achievable rate, and demonstrate that
the proposed codebook design outperforms conventional schemes, especially in
the non-uniform distribution of channel scenarios.


Online charge calibration of LHAASO-WCDA---a study with the engineering
  array

  LHAASO-WCDA is a large ground-based water Cherenkov detector array planned to
be built at Shangri-La, Yunnan Province, China. As a major component of LHAASO
project, the main purpose of LHAASO-WCDA is to survey the northern sky for
very-high-energy (above 100 GeV) gamma ray sources. To gain full knowledge of
water Cherenkov technique and to well investigate engineering issues, a 9-cell
detector array has been built at Yang-Ba-Jing site, neighboring to the ARGO-YBJ
experiment. With the array, charge calibration methods for low and high ranges
of the PMT readout are studied, whose result shows that a very high precision
at several percentages can be reached. These calibration methods are proposed
to be applied in the future LHAASO-WCDA project.


Wavelength Spacing Tunable, Multiwavelength Q-Switched Mode-Locked Laser
  Based on Graphene-Oxide-Deposited Tapered Fiber

  A wavelength spacing tunable, multiwavelength Q-switched mode-locked (QML)
fiber laser in an erbium-doped fiber cavity based on graphene oxide deposited
on tapered fiber is proposed by choosing the diameter and length of the taper,
graphene oxide thickness and cavity dispersion, in which the wavelength spacing
could be tuned by pump power. The evolutions of temporal and spectral with
different pump strengths are investigated. Results show that the tunability of
the multiwavelength laser can be interpreted by the bound states of QML laser
resulting from a mutual interaction of dispersion, nonlinear effect, insertion
loss, and pump power. To the best of our knowledge, it is the first
experimental observation of bound states of QML, which provides a new mechanism
to fabricate tunable multiwavelength laser.


Vector rectangular-shape laser based on reduced graphene oxide
  interacting with long fiber taper

  A vector dual-wavelength rectangular-shape laser (RSL) based on a long fiber
taper deposited with reduced graphene oxide is proposed, where the nonlinearity
is enhanced due to large evanescent-field-interacting length and strong field
confinement of a 8 mm fiber taper with a waist diameter of 4 micronmeters.
Graphene flakes are deposited uniformly on the taper waist with light pressure
effect, so this structure guarantees both excellent saturable absorption and
high nonlinearity. The RSL with a repetition rate of 7.9 MHz exhibits fast
polarization switching in two orthogonal polarization directions, and the
temporal and spectral characteristics are investigated. The results suggest
that the long taper-based graphene structure is an efficient choice for
nonlinear devices.


A Polynomial-time Algorithm to Compute Generalized Hermite Normal Form
  of Matrices over Z[x]

  In this paper, a polynomial-time algorithm is given to compute the
generalized Hermite normal form for a matrix F over Z[x], or equivalently, the
reduced Groebner basis of the Z[x]-module generated by the column vectors of F.
The algorithm is also shown to be practically more efficient than existing
algorithms. The algorithm is based on three key ingredients. First, an F4 style
algorithm to compute the Groebner basis is adopted, where a novel prolongation
is designed such that the coefficient matrices under consideration have
polynomial sizes. Second, fast algorithms to compute Hermite normal forms of
matrices over Z are used. Third, the complexity of the algorithm are guaranteed
by a nice estimation for the degree and height bounds of the polynomials in the
generalized Hermite normal form.


The dependence of dark halo clustering on the formation epoch and the
  concentration parameter

  We examine the age-dependence of dark matter halo clustering in an
unprecedented accuracy using a set of 7 high-resolution cosmological
simulations each with $N=1024^3$ particles. We measure the bias parameters for
halos over a large mass range using the cross-power-spectrum method that can
effectively suppress the random noise even in the sparse sampling of the most
massive halos. This enables us to find, for the first time, that younger halos
are more strongly clustered than older ones for halo masses $M>10M_{\ast}$,
where $M_\ast$ is the characteristic nonlinear mass scale. For $M<M_{\ast}$,
our results confirm the previous finding of Gao et al. that older halos are
clustered more strongly than the younger ones. We also study the halo bias as a
function of halo concentration, and find that the concentration dependence is
weaker than the age dependence for $M<M_{\ast}$, but stronger for $M\ga 50
M_{\ast}$. The accurate and robust measurement of the age dependences of halo
bias points to a limitation of the simple excursion set theory which predicts
that the formation and structure of a halo of given mass is independent of its
environment.


Breakdown of Three-dimensional Dirac Semimetal State in pressurized
  Cd3As2

  We report the first observation of a pressure-induced breakdown of the 3D-DSM
state in Cd3As2, evidenced by a series of in-situ high-pressure synchrotron
X-ray diffraction (XRD) and single crystal transport measurements. We find that
Cd3As2 undergoes a structural phase transition from a metallic tetragonal (T)
phase in space group I41/acd to a semiconducting monoclinic (M) phase in space
group P21/c at critical pressure 2.57 GPa, above this pressure, an activation
energy gap appears, accompanied by distinct switches in Hall resistivity slope
and electron mobility. These changes of crystal symmetry and corresponding
transport properties manifest the breakdown of the 3D-DSM state in pressurized
Cd3As2.


Atomized Spraying of Liquid Metal Droplets on Desired Substrate Surfaces
  as a Generalized Way for Ubiquitous Printed Electronics

  A direct electronics printing technique through atomized spraying for
patterning room temperature liquid metal droplets on desired substrate surfaces
is proposed and experimentally demonstrated for the first time. This method has
generalized purpose and is highly flexible and capable of fabricating
electronic components on any desired target objects, with either flat or rough
surfaces, made of different materials, or different orientations from 1-D to
3-D geometrical configurations. With a pre-designed mask, the liquid metal ink
can be directly deposited on the substrate to form various specific patterns
which lead to the rapid prototyping of electronic devices. Further, extended
printing strategies were also suggested to illustrate the adaptability of the
method such that the natural porous structure can be adopted to offer an
alternative way of making transparent conductive film with an optical
transmittance of 47% and a sheet resistance of 5.167{\Omega}/O. Different from
the former direct writing technology where large surface tension and poor
adhesion between the liquid metal and the substrate often impede the flexible
printing process, the liquid metal here no longer needs to be pre-oxidized to
guarantee its applicability on target substrates. One critical mechanism was
found as that the atomized liquid metal microdroplets can be quickly oxidized
in the air due to its large specific surface area, resulting in a significant
increase of the adhesive capacity and thus firm deposition of the ink to the
substrate. This study established a generalized way for pervasively and
directly printing electronics on various substrates which are expected to be
significant in a wide spectrum of electrical engineering areas.


An Algorithm for Preferential Selection of Spectroscopic Targets in
  LEGUE

  We describe a general target selection algorithm that is applicable to any
survey in which the number of available candidates is much larger than the
number of objects to be observed. This routine aims to achieve a balance
between a smoothly-varying, well-understood selection function and the desire
to preferentially select certain types of targets. Some target-selection
examples are shown that illustrate different possibilities of emphasis
functions. Although it is generally applicable, the algorithm was developed
specifically for the LAMOST Experiment for Galactic Understanding and
Exploration (LEGUE) survey that will be carried out using the Chinese Guo Shou
Jing Telescope. In particular, this algorithm was designed for the portion of
LEGUE targeting the Galactic halo, in which we attempt to balance a variety of
science goals that require stars at fainter magnitudes than can be completely
sampled by LAMOST. This algorithm has been implemented for the halo portion of
the LAMOST pilot survey, which began in October 2011.


Splashing phenomena of room temperature liquid metal droplet striking on
  the pool of the same liquid under ambient air environment

  In this article, the fluid dynamics of room temperature liquid metal (RTLM)
droplet impacting onto a pool of the same liquid in ambient air was
investigated. A series of experiments were conducted in order to disclose the
influence of the oxidation effect on the impact dynamics. The droplet shape and
impact phenomenology were recorded with the aid of a high-speed digital camera.
The impact energy stored in the splash structures was estimated via a
theoretical model and several morphological parameters obtained from
instantaneous images of the splash. It was observed that the droplet shape and
the splashing morphology of RTLM were drastically different from those of
water, so was the impact dynamics between room temperature LM pool and high
temperature LM pool. The energy analysis disclosed that the height of the jet
is highly sensitive to the viscosity of the fluid, which is subjected to the
oxidation effect and temperature effect simultaneously, and thus perfectly
explained the phenomena. These basic findings are important for the application
of RTLM in a series of newly emerging technologies such as liquid metal based
spray cooling, ink-jet printed electronics, interface material painting and
coating, metallurgy, and 3D packages, etc.


Dipole: Diagnosis Prediction in Healthcare via Attention-based
  Bidirectional Recurrent Neural Networks

  Predicting the future health information of patients from the historical
Electronic Health Records (EHR) is a core research task in the development of
personalized healthcare. Patient EHR data consist of sequences of visits over
time, where each visit contains multiple medical codes, including diagnosis,
medication, and procedure codes. The most important challenges for this task
are to model the temporality and high dimensionality of sequential EHR data and
to interpret the prediction results. Existing work solves this problem by
employing recurrent neural networks (RNNs) to model EHR data and utilizing
simple attention mechanism to interpret the results. However, RNN-based
approaches suffer from the problem that the performance of RNNs drops when the
length of sequences is large, and the relationships between subsequent visits
are ignored by current RNN-based approaches. To address these issues, we
propose {\sf Dipole}, an end-to-end, simple and robust model for predicting
patients' future health information. Dipole employs bidirectional recurrent
neural networks to remember all the information of both the past visits and the
future visits, and it introduces three attention mechanisms to measure the
relationships of different visits for the prediction. With the attention
mechanisms, Dipole can interpret the prediction results effectively. Dipole
also allows us to interpret the learned medical code representations which are
confirmed positively by medical experts. Experimental results on two real world
EHR datasets show that the proposed Dipole can significantly improve the
prediction accuracy compared with the state-of-the-art diagnosis prediction
approaches and provide clinically meaningful interpretation.


The site conditions of the Guo Shou Jing Telescope

  The weather at Xinglong Observing Station, where the Guo Shou Jing Telescope
(GSJT) is located, is strongly affected by the monsoon climate in north-east
China. The LAMOST survey strategy is constrained by these weather patterns. In
this paper, we present a statistics on observing hours from 2004 to 2007, and
the sky brightness, seeing, and sky transparency from 1995 to 2011 at the site.
We investigate effects of the site conditions on the survey plan. Operable
hours each month shows strong correlation with season: on average there are 8
operable hours per night available in December, but only 1-2 hours in July and
August. The seeing and the sky transparency also vary with seasons. Although
the seeing is worse in windy winters, and the atmospheric extinction is worse
in the spring and summer, the site is adequate for the proposed scientific
program of LAMOST survey. With a Monte Carlo simulation using historical data
on the site condition, we find that the available observation hours constrain
the survey footprint from 22h to 16h in right ascension; the sky brightness
allows LAMOST to obtain the limit magnitude of V = 19.5mag with S/N = 10.


Multiple graph regularized protein domain ranking

  Background Protein domain ranking is a fundamental task in structural
biology. Most protein domain ranking methods rely on the pairwise comparison of
protein domains while neglecting the global manifold structure of the protein
domain database. Recently, graph regularized ranking that exploits the global
structure of the graph defined by the pairwise similarities has been proposed.
However, the existing graph regularized ranking methods are very sensitive to
the choice of the graph model and parameters, and this remains a difficult
problem for most of the protein domain ranking methods.
  Results To tackle this problem, we have developed the Multiple Graph
regularized Ranking algorithm, MultiG- Rank. Instead of using a single graph to
regularize the ranking scores, MultiG-Rank approximates the intrinsic manifold
of protein domain distribution by combining multiple initial graphs for the
regularization. Graph weights are learned with ranking scores jointly and
automatically, by alternately minimizing an ob- jective function in an
iterative algorithm. Experimental results on a subset of the ASTRAL SCOP
protein domain database demonstrate that MultiG-Rank achieves a better ranking
performance than single graph regularized ranking methods and pairwise
similarity based ranking methods.
  Conclusion The problem of graph model and parameter selection in graph
regularized protein domain ranking can be solved effectively by combining
multiple graphs. This aspect of generalization introduces a new frontier in
applying multiple graphs to solving protein domain ranking applications.


Sign patterns with minimum rank 3 and point-line configurations

  A \emph{sign pattern (matrix)} is a matrix whose entries are from the set
$\{+, -, 0\}$. The \emph{minimum rank} (respectively, \emph{rational minimum
rank}) of a sign pattern matrix $\cal A$ is the minimum of the ranks of the
real (respectively, rational) matrices whose entries have signs equal to the
corresponding entries of $\cal A$. A sign pattern $\cal A$ is said to be
\emph{condensed} if $\cal A$ has no zero row or column and no two rows or
columns are identical or negatives of each other. In this paper, a new direct
connection between condensed $m \times n $ sign patterns with minimum rank $r$
and $m$ point--$n$ hyperplane configurations in ${\mathbb R}^{r-1}$ is
established. In particular, condensed sign patterns with minimum rank 3 are
closed related to point--line configurations on the plane. It is proved that
for any sign pattern $\cal A$ with minimum rank $r\geq 3$, if the number of
zero entries on each column of $\cal A$ is at most $r-1$, then the rational
minimum rank of $\cal A$ is also $r$. Furthermore, we construct the smallest
known sign pattern whose minimum rank is 3 but whose rational minimum rank is
greater than 3.


A deep learning approach for detecting traffic accidents from social
  media data

  This paper employs deep learning in detecting the traffic accident from
social media data. First, we thoroughly investigate the 1-year over 3 million
tweet contents in two metropolitan areas: Northern Virginia and New York City.
Our results show that paired tokens can capture the association rules inherent
in the accident-related tweets and further increase the accuracy of the traffic
accident detection. Second, two deep learning methods: Deep Belief Network
(DBN) and Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) are investigated and implemented on the
extracted token. Results show that DBN can obtain an overall accuracy of 85%
with about 44 individual token features and 17 paired token features. The
classification results from DBN outperform those of Support Vector Machines
(SVMs) and supervised Latent Dirichlet allocation (sLDA). Finally, to validate
this study, we compare the accident-related tweets with both the traffic
accident log on freeways and traffic data on local roads from 15,000 loop
detectors. It is found that nearly 66% of the accident-related tweets can be
located by the accident log and more than 80% of them can be tied to nearby
abnormal traffic data. Several important issues of using Twitter to detect
traffic accidents have been brought up by the comparison including the location
and time bias, as well as the characteristics of influential users and
hashtags.


Are Great Disks Defined by Satellite Galaxies in Milky-Way Type Halos
  Rare in $Λ$CDM model?

  We study the spatial distribution of satellite galaxies by assuming that they
follow the dark matter distribution. This assumption is supported by
semi-analytical studies based on high-resolution numerical simulations. We find
that for a Milky-Way type halo, if only a dozen satellite galaxies are
observed, then they can lie on a ``great'' disk with an rms height of about 40
kpc. The normal to the plane is roughly isotropic on the sky. These results are
consistent with the observed properties of the satellite galaxies in the Milky
Way. If, however, the satellite galaxies follow the distribution of
substructure selected by present mass, then great disks similar to the one in
the Milky Way are rare and difficult to reproduce, in agreement with the
conclusion reached by Kroupa et al. (2004).


The giant arc statistics in the three year WMAP cosmological model

  We use high-resolution $N$-body simulations to investigate the optical depth
of giant arcs with length-to-width ratio larger than 7.5 and 10 in the
`standard' $\LCDM$ model with $\sigma_8=0.9$ and $\Omega_{\rm m,0}=0.3$ and a
model based on three-year Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP) data. We
find that, in dark-matter only simulations, the lensing probability in the
three-year WMAP model (with $\sigma_8=0.74$ and $\Omega_{\rm m,0}=0.238)$
decreases by a factor of $\sim 6$ compared with that in the `standard' $\LCDM$
model. The effects of baryonic cooling, star formation and feedbacks are
uncertain, but we argue that baryons will only increase the the lensing
cross-section by a moderate factor, $\sim 2$. We conclude that the low central
value of $\sigma_8$ and $\Omega_{\rm m,0}$ preferred by the WMAP three-year
data may be too low to be compatible with observations if conventional
assumptions of the background source population are correct.


Itinerant metamagnetism in manganites caused by the field-induced
  electronic nematic order

  Itinerant metamagnetism transition is observed and studied in perovskite
La1-xCaxMn0.90Cu0.10O3 system for x = 0.30. At a constant low temperature, 10 K
< T < 150 K, there is a continuous second-order metamagnetism jump from a low
magnetic state to a high one with the magnetic field H increasing. However, at
an exceeding low temperature, T = 2.5 K, the metamagnetism jump at H = 3.5 T
becomes to be a robust first-order transition, and another metamagnetism
transition occurs at a higher field H = 7.0 T. Since there is no charge
ordering sign in the present system, it can not be understood by using the
phase separation model or the prior martensite/austenitic phase transition
scenario. A theoretical electronic nematic order phase formation is evidenced
to answer for the two consecutive metamagnetic transitions, which separate the
nematic phase from the low-field (H < 3.5 T) and high-field (H > 7.0 T)
isotropic phases.


Functionalized Graphene for High Performance Two-dimensional Spintronics
  Devices

  Using first-principles calculations, we explore the possibility of
functionalized graphene as high performance two-dimensional spintronics device.
Graphene functionalized with O on one side and H on the other side in the chair
conformation is found to be a ferromagnetic metal with a spin-filter efficiency
up to 85% at finite bias. The ground state of graphene semi-functionalized with
F in the chair conformation is an antiferromagnetic semiconductor, and we
construct a magnetoresistive device from it by introducing a magnetic field to
stabilize its ferromagnetic metallic state. The resulting room-temperature
magnetoresistance is up to 5400%, which is one order of magnitude larger than
the available experimental values.


Pressure-Driven Quantum Criticality in An Iron-Selenide Superconductor

  The discovery of superconductivity of about 30 K in iron selenides with very
large magnetic moments simulates the examination of completing orders. Here we
report a finding of pressure- induced suppression of the superconducting
transition temperature Tc and enhancement of the temperature of the resistance
hump TH through charge transfer between two iron sites with different
occupancies. The activation energy for the electric transport of the
high-temperature resistance is observed to go to zero at a critical pressure of
8.7 GPa, at which superconductivity tends to disappear and the
semiconductor-to-metal transition takes place. Beyond the critical point, the
resistance exhibits a metallic behavior over the whole temperature range
studied. All these features indicate the existence of quantum criticality in
iron-selenide superconductors.


Correlation between superconductivity and antiferromagnetism in
  Rb0.8Fe2Se2-xTex single crystals

  We report the first experimental evidence for the intimate connection between
superconductivity and antiferromagnetism in Rb0.8Fe2Se2-xTex single crystal
under negative chemical pressure by substituting Se with isovalent Te atoms.
Electrical resistance measurements in the temperature range from 4 K to 550 K
demonstrate that both superconducting transition temperature (Tc) and Neel
temperature (TN) were suppressed continuously with the lattice expansion. When
the Te concentration x in Rb0.8Fe2Se2-xTex approaches 0.3, the superconducting
transition temperature Tc is completely suppressed and the sample behaves like
a semiconductor, meanwhile the characteristic peak of antiferromagnetic
transition on resistance curve disappears. Our observation suggests that the
pressure-induced lattice expansion can be used to tune the correlativity of
superconductivity and antiferromagnetism.


Culturomics meets random fractal theory: Insights into long-range
  correlations of social and natural phenomena over the past two centuries

  Culturomics was recently introduced as the application of high-throughput
data collection and analysis to the study of human culture. Here we make use of
this data by investigating fluctuations in yearly usage frequencies of specific
words that describe social and natural phenomena, as derived from books that
were published over the course of the past two centuries. We show that the
determination of the Hurst parameter by means of fractal analysis provides
fundamental insights into the nature of long-range correlations contained in
the culturomic trajectories, and by doing so, offers new interpretations as to
what might be the main driving forces behind the examined phenomena. Quite
remarkably, we find that social and natural phenomena are governed by
fundamentally different processes. While natural phenomena have properties that
are typical for processes with persistent long-range correlations, social
phenomena are better described as nonstationary, on-off intermittent, or Levy
walk processes.


Interfacial Properties of Bilayer and Trilayer Graphene on Metal
  Substrates

  One popular approach to prepare graphene is to grow them on transition metal
substrates via chemical vapor deposition. By using the density functional
theory with dispersion correction, we systematically investigate for the first
time the interfacial properties of bilayer (BLG) and trilayer graphene (TLG) on
metal substrates. Three categories of interfacial structures are revealed. The
adsorption of B(T)LG on Al, Ag, Cu, Au, and Pt substrates is a weak
physisorption, but a band gap can be opened. The adsorption of B(T)LG on Ti,
Ni, and Co substrates is a strong chemisorption, and a stacking-insensitive
band gap is opened for the two uncontacted layers of TLG. The adsorption of
B(T)LG on Pd substrate is a weaker chemisorption, with a band gap opened for
the uncontacted layers. This fundamental study also helps for B(T)LG device
study due to inevitable graphene/metal contact.


Tunable band gap in few-layer graphene by surface adsorption

  There is a tunable band gap in ABC-stacked few-layer graphene (FLG) via
applying a vertical electric field, but the operation of FLG-based field effect
transistor (FET) requires two gates to create a band gap and tune channel's
conductance individually. Using first principle calculations, we propose an
alternative scheme to open a band gap in ABC-stacked FLG namely via single-side
adsorption. The band gap is generally proportional to the charge transfer
density. The capability to open a band gap of metal adsorption decreases in
this order: K/Al > Cu/Ag/Au > Pt. Moreover, we find that even the band gap of
ABA-stacked FLG can be opened if the bond symmetry is broken. Finally, a
single-gated FET based on Cu-adsorbed ABC-stacked trilayer graphene is
simulated. A clear transmission gap is observed, which is comparable with the
band gap. This renders metal-adsorbed FLG a promising channel in a single-gated
FET device.


A Survey on Truth Discovery

  Thanks to information explosion, data for the objects of interest can be
collected from increasingly more sources. However, for the same object, there
usually exist conflicts among the collected multi-source information. To tackle
this challenge, truth discovery, which integrates multi-source noisy
information by estimating the reliability of each source, has emerged as a hot
topic. Several truth discovery methods have been proposed for various
scenarios, and they have been successfully applied in diverse application
domains. In this survey, we focus on providing a comprehensive overview of
truth discovery methods, and summarizing them from different aspects. We also
discuss some future directions of truth discovery research. We hope that this
survey will promote a better understanding of the current progress on truth
discovery, and offer some guidelines on how to apply these approaches in
application domains.


