Binary nonlinearization of the super AKNS system

  We establish the binary nonlinearization approach of the spectral problem of
the super AKNS system, and then use it to obtain the super finite-dimensional
integrable Hamiltonian system in supersymmetry manifold $\mathbb{R}^{4N|2N}$.
The super Hamiltonian forms and integrals of motion are given explicitly.


Emergent Supersymmetric Many-Body Systems in Doped Z2 Topological Spin
  Liquid of the Toric-Code Model

  In this paper, we studied the doped Z2 topological spin liquid of the
toric-code model. We found that the doped holes become supersymmetric
particles. The ground state of the doped Z2 topological spin liquid becomes new
matters of quantum states - supersymmetric Bose-Einstein condensation or
supersymmetric superfluid. As a result, this system provides a unique example
of manipulatable supersymmetric many-body system.


Electro-Hydrodynamic Shooting Phenomenon of Liquid Metal Stream

  We reported an electro-hydrodynamic shooting phenomenon of liquid metal
stream. A small voltage direct current electric field would induce ejection of
liquid metal inside capillary tube and then shooting into sodium hydroxide
solution to form discrete droplets. The shooting velocity has positive
relationship with the applied voltage while the droplet size is dominated by
the aperture diameter of the capillary nozzle. Further, the motion of the
liquid metal droplets can be flexibly manipulated by the electrodes. This
effect suggests an easy going way to generate metal droplets in large quantity,
which is important from both fundamental and practical aspects.


Correlation based entanglement criteria for bipartite systems

  We introduce a class of inequalities based on low order correlations of
operators to detect entanglement in bipartite systems. The operators may either
be Hermitian or non-Hermitian and are applicable to any physical system or
class of states. Testing the criteria on example systems reveals that they
outperform other common correlation based criteria, such as those by
Duan-Giedke-Cirac-Zoller and Hillery-Zubairy. One unusual feature of the
criteria is that it includes a term involving the average of the density matrix
squared, related to the purity of the system. We discuss how such a term could
be measured in relation to the criteria.


What You Say and How You Say it: Joint Modeling of Topics and Discourse
  in Microblog Conversations

  This paper presents an unsupervised framework for jointly modeling topic
content and discourse behavior in microblog conversations. Concretely, we
propose a neural model to discover word clusters indicating what a conversation
concerns (i.e., topics) and those reflecting how participants voice their
opinions (i.e., discourse). Extensive experiments show that our model can yield
both coherent topics and meaningful discourse behavior. Further study shows
that our topic and discourse representations can benefit the classification of
microblog messages, especially when they are jointly trained with the
classifier.


The character tables of centralizers in Sporadic Simple Groups of ${\rm
  HS}$ and ${\rm Co_3}$

  To classify the finite dimensional pointed Hopf algebras with $G= {\rm HS}$
or ${\rm Co3}$ we obtain the representatives of conjugacy classes of $G$ and
all character tables of centralizers of these representatives by means of
software {\rm GAP}.


Theory of Ferrimagnetism in the Hubbard Model on Bipartite Lattices with
  Spectrum Symmetry

  In this paper we developed theory of the ferrimagnetism in the Hubbard model
on bipartite lattices with spectrum symmetry. We then study the defect-induced
ferrimagnetic orders in three models and explored the universal features.


Optical generation of hybrid entangled state via entangling
  single-photon-added coherent state

  We propose a feasible scheme to realize the optical entanglement of
single-photon-added coherent state (SPACS) and show that, besides the Sanders
entangled coherent state, the entangled SPACS also leads to new forms of hybrid
entanglement of quantum Fock state and classical coherent state. We probe the
essential difference of two types of hybrid entangled state (HES). This HES
provides a novel link between the discrete- and the continuous-variable
entanglement in a natural way.


Binary Nonlinearization of the Super Akns System Under an Implicit
  Symmetry Constraint

  For the super AKNS system, an implicit symmetry constraint between the
potentials and the eigenfunctions is proposed. After introducing some new
variables to explicitly express potentials, the super AKNS system is decomposed
into two compatible finite-dimensional super systems (x-part and $t_n$-part).
Furthermore, we show that the obtained super systems are integrable super
Hamiltonian systems in supersymmetry manifold $\mathbb{R}^{4N+2|2N+2}$.


The Bargmann symmetry constraint and binary nonlinearization of the
  super Dirac systems

  An explicit Bargmann symmetry constraint is computed and its associated
binary nonlinearization of Lax pairs is carried out for the super Dirac
systems. Under the obtained symmetry constraint, the n-th flow of the super
Dirac hierarchy is decomposed into two super finite-dimensional integrable
Hamiltonian systems, defined over the supersymmetry manifold $R^{4N|2N}$ with
the corresponding dynamical variables $x$ and $t_n$. The integrals of motion
required for Liouville integrability are explicitly given.


Type II Nodal line Semimetal

  Recently, topological semimetals become hot topic in condensed matter
physics, including Dirac semimetal, Weyl semimetal, and nodal line semimetal
(NLSM). In this paper, a new type of node- line semimetal - type-II NLSM is
proposed based on a two-band cubic lattice model. For type-II NLSM, the zero
energy bulk states have a closed loop in momentum space but the (local) Weyl
cones on nodal line become tilted. The effect of magnetic field and that of
correlation on type-II NLSM are studied. In particular, after considering
repulsive interaction and additional spin degrees of freedom, different types
of long range magnetic orders appear in bulk states. In addition, the
interaction-induced ferromagnetic order of surface states may exist. At
critical point between type-I NLSM and type-II NLSM, arbitrary tiny interaction
induces ferromagnetic order due to a flat band at Fermi surface.


Personalized Next Point-of-Interest Recommendation via Latent Behavior
  Patterns Inference

  In this paper, we address the problem of personalized next Point-of-interest
(POI) recommendation which has become an important and very challenging task
for location-based social networks (LBSNs), but not well studied yet. With the
conjecture that, under different contextual scenarios, human exhibits distinct
mobility pattern, we attempt here to jointly model the next POI recommendation
under the influence of user's latent behavior pattern. We propose to adopt a
third-rank tensor to model the successive check-in behaviors. By integrating
categorical influence into mobility patterns and aggregating user's spatial
preference on a POI, the proposed model deal with the next new POI
recommendation problem by nature. By incorporating softmax function to fuse the
personalized Markov chain with latent pattern, we furnish a Bayesian
Personalized Ranking (BPR) approach and derive the optimization criterion
accordingly. Expectation Maximization (EM) is then used to estimate the model
parameters. We further develop a personalized model by taking into account
personalized mobility patterns under the contextual scenario to improve the
recommendation performance. Extensive experiments on two large-scale LBSNs
datasets demonstrate the significant improvements of our model over several
state-of-the-art methods.


Late-time evolution of charged massive Dirac fields in the Kerr-Newman
  background

  We investigate both the intermediate late-time tail and the asymptotic tail
behavior of the charged massive Dirac fields in the background of the
Kerr-Newman black hole. We find that the intermediate late-time behavior of
charged massive Dirac fields is dominated by an inverse power-law decaying tail
without any oscillation, which is different from the oscillatory decaying tails
of the scalar field. We note that the dumping exponent depends not only on the
angular quantum numbers $m$, the separation constant $\lambda$ and the rotating
parameter $a$, but also on the product $seQ$ of the spin weight of the Dirac
field and the charges of the black hole and the fields. We also find that the
decay rate of the asymptotically late-time tail is $t^{-5/6}$, and the
oscillation of the tail has the period of $2\pi / \mu$ which is modulated by
two types of long-term phase shifts.


Supersymmetric Unparticle Effects on Higgs Boson Mass and Dark Matter

  We propose a model that introduces a supersymmetric unparticle operator in
the minimal supersymmetric Standard Model. We analyze the lowest dimension
operator involving an unparticle. This operator behaves as a Standard Model
gauge singlet and it introduces a new parameter into the Higgs potential which
can provide an alternative way to relax the upper limit on the lightest Higgs
boson mass. This operator also introduces several unparticle interactions which
can induce a neutral Higgsino to decay into a spinor unparticle. It also
induces violation of scale invariance around the electroweak scale. It is
necessary for the scale of this violation to be larger than the lightest
supersymmetric particle mass to maintain the latter as the usual weakly
interacting massive particle dark matter candidate. An alternative is to have
unparticle state as dark matter candidate. We also comment on some collider
implications.


The Simulation of Non-Abelian Statistics of Majorana Fermions in Ising
  Chain with Z2 Symmetry

  In this paper, we numerically study the non-Abelian statistics of the
zero-energy Majorana fermions on the end of Majorana chain and show its
application to quantum computing by mapping it to a spin model with special
symmetry. In particular, by using transverse-field Ising model with Z2
symmetry, we verify the nontrivial non-Abelian statistics of Majorana fermions.
Numerical evidence and comparison in both Majorana-representation and
spin-representation are presented. The degenerate ground states of a symmetry
protected spin chain therefore previde a promising platform for topological
quantum computation.


Multi- Physics analysis of the RFQ for the Injector Scheme II of CADS
  Driver Linac

  A 162.5 MHz, 2.1 MeV Radio Frequency Quadruples (RFQ) structure is being
designed for the Injector Scheme II of China Accelerator Driver System (CADS)
driver linac. The RFQ will operate at continuous wave (CW) mode as required.
For the CW normal conducting machine, the heat management will be one of the
most important issues, since the temperature fluctuation may cause cavity
deformation and leading to the resonant frequency shift. Therefor a detailed
multi-physics analysis is necessary to ensure that the cavity can be stably
worked at the required power level. The multi-physics analysis process includes
RF Electromagnetic analysis, Thermal analysis, Mechnical analysis, and this
process will be iterated for several cycles until the satisfied solution can be
found. As one of the widely accepted measures, the cooling water system is used
for frequency fine tunning, so the tunning capability of the cooling water
system is also studied at different conditions. The results indicate that with
the cooling water system, both the temperature rise and the frequency shift can
be controlled in an acceptable level.


Differential flow correlations in relativistic heavy-ion collisions

  A systematic analysis of correlations between different orders of
$p_T$-differential flow is presented, including mode coupling effects in flow
vectors, correlations between flow angles (a.k.a. event-plane correlations),
and correlations between flow magnitudes, all of which were previously studied
with integrated flows. We find that the mode coupling effects among
differential flows largely mirror those among the corresponding integrated
flows, except at small transverse momenta where mode coupling contributions are
small. For the fourth- and fifth-order flow vectors $V_4$ and $V_5$ we argue
that the event plane correlations can be understood as the ratio between the
mode coupling contributions to these flows and and the flow magnitudes. We also
find that for $V_4$ and $V_5$ the linear response contribution scales linearly
with the corresponding cumulant-defined eccentricities but not with the
standard eccentricities.


Thermodynamical stability for perfect fluid

  According to maximum entropy principle, it has been proved that the
gravitational field equations could be derived by the extrema of total entropy
for perfect fluid, which implies that thermodynamic relations contain
information of gravity. In this manuscript, we obtain a criterion for
thermodynamical stability of an adiabatic, self-gravitating perfect fluid
system by the second variation of total entropy. We show, for Einstein's
gravity with spherical symmetry spacetime, that the criterion is consistent
with that for dynamical stability derived by Chandrasekhar and Wald. We also
find that the criterion could be applied to cases without spherical symmetry,
or under general perturbations. The result further establishes the connection
between thermodynamics and gravity.


Consistency between dynamical and thermodynamical stabilities for
  perfect fluid in $f(R)$ theories

  We investigate the stability criterions for perfect fluid in $f(R)$ theories
which is an important generalization of general relativity. Firstly, using
Wald's general variation principle, we recast Seifert's work and obtain the
dynamical stability criterion. Then using our generalized thermodynamical
criterion, we obtain the concrete expressions of the criterion. We show that
the dynamical stability criterion is exactly the same as the thermodynamical
stability criterion. This result suggests that there is an inherent connection
between the thermodynamics and gravity in $f(R)$ theories. It should be pointed
out that using the thermodynamical method to determine the stability for
perfect fluid is simpler and more directly than the dynamical method.


Nanoscale Bandgap Tuning across an Inhomogeneous Ferroelectric Interface

  We report nanoscale bandgap engineering via a local strain across the
inhomogeneous ferroelectric interface, which is controlled by the
visible-light-excited probe voltage. Switchable photovolatic effects and the
spectral response of the photocurrent were explore to illustrate the reversible
bandgap variation (~0.3eV). This local-strain-engineered bandgap has been
further revealed by in situ probe-voltage-assisted valence electron energy-loss
spectroscopy (EELS). Phase-field simulations and first-principle calculations
were also employed for illustration of the large local strain and the bandgap
variation in ferroelectric perovskite oxides. This reversible bandgap tuning in
complex oxides demonstrates a framework for the understanding of the
opticallyrelated behaviors (photovoltaic, photoemission, and photocatalyst
effects) affected by order parameters such as charge, orbital, and lattice
parameters.


Progressive Color Transfer with Dense Semantic Correspondences

  We propose a new algorithm for color transfer between images that have
perceptually similar semantic structures. We aim to achieve a more accurate
color transfer that leverages semantically-meaningful dense correspondence
between images. To accomplish this, our algorithm uses neural representations
for matching. Additionally, the color transfer should be spatially variant and
globally coherent. Therefore, our algorithm optimizes a local linear model for
color transfer satisfying both local and global constraints. Our proposed
approach jointly optimizes matching and color transfer, adopting a
coarse-to-fine strategy. The proposed method can be successfully extended from
one-to-one to one-to-many color transfer. The latter further addresses the
problem of mismatching elements of the input image. We validate our proposed
method by testing it on a large variety of image content.


Theoretical study of subwavelength imaging by acoustic metamaterial
  slabs

  We investigate theoretically subwavelength imaging by acoustic metamaterial
slabs immersed in the liquid matrix. A near-field subwavelength image formed by
evanescent waves is achieved by a designed metamaterial slab with negative mass
density and positive modulus. A subwavelength real image is achieved by a
designed metamaterial slab with simultaneously negative mass density and
modulus. These results are expected to shed some lights on designing novel
devices of acoustic metamaterials.


Quantum spin liquid with fermionized pi-vortices

  In this paper, we study the non-magnetic insulator state near Mott transition
of 2D pi-flux Hubbard model on square lattice and find that such non-magnetic
insulator state is quantum spin liquid state with nodal fermionic excitations -
nodal spin liquid (NSL). When there exists small easy-plane anisotropic energy,
the ground state becomes Z2 topological spin liquid (TSL) with full gapped
excitations. The U(1)times U(1) mutual--Chern-Simons (MCS) theory is obtained
to describe the low energy physics of NSL and TSL.


Chiral Spin Liquid in Correlated Topological Insulator

  In this paper, we investigate the topological Hubbard model - the spinful
Haldane model with on-site interaction on honeycomb lattice with spin rotation
symmetry by using slave-rotor approach and find that chiral spin liquid exists
in such a correlated electron system of the intermediate coupling region. By
considering the anyon nature of excitations, chiral spin liquid may be the
ground state of the topological Hubbard model. The low energy physics is
basically determined by its Chern-Simons gauge theory.


Topological Majorana Lattice Model: Induced "Topological Superconductor"
  on Topological Superconductor with Vortex-lattice

  In this paper we study an s-wave topological SC with a square vortex-lattice.
We proposed a topological Majorana lattice model to describe this topological
state. We found that the Majorana lattice model is really a "topological SC" on
the parent topological SC. Such correspondence between the Majorana lattice
model and the topological SC with vortex-lattice is another holographic feature
of the topological state. In addition, the numerical calculations confirm our
theoretical prediction.


A few final comments to arXiv:1210.7548[hep-ph]

  A few final comments on arXiv:1210.7548 are given to confute incorrect
arguments claimed there.


Protein Dynamical Transition in Terahertz Dielectric Response

  The 200 K protein dynamical transition is observed for the first time in the
teraherz dielectric response. The complex dielectric permittivity $\epsilon$ =
$\epsilon$' + i$\epsilon$" is determined in the 0.2 - 2.0 THz and 80-294 K
ranges. $\epsilon$" has a linear temperature dependence up to 200 K then
sharply increases. The low temperature linear dependence in $\epsilon$"
indicates anharmonicity for temperatures 80 K < T < 180 K, challenging the
assumed harmonicity below 200K. The temperature dependence is consistent with
beta relaxation response and shows the protein motions involved in the
dynamical transition extend to subpicosecond time scales.


Topological Superfluid in P-band Optical Lattice

  In this paper by studying p-band fermionic system with nearest neighbor
attractive interaction we find translation symmetry protected Z2 topological
superfluid (TSF) that is characterized by a special fermion parity pattern at
high symmetry points in momentum space k=(0,0), (0,pi), (pi,0), (pi,pi). Such
Z2 TSF supports the robust Majorana edge modes and a new type of low energy
excitation - (supersymmetric) Z2 link-excitation. In the end we address a
possible realization of such interacting p-band fermions with Z2 TSF.


Interferometric characterization of pulse front tilt of spatiotemporally
  focused femtosecond laser pulses for three-dimensional micromachining
  application

  We report on an experimental measurement of the pulse front tilt (PFT) of
spatiotemporally focused femtosecond laser pulses in the focal plane in both
air and bulk transparent materials, which is achieved by examination of the
interference pattern between the spatiotemporally focused pulse and a
conventional focused reference pulse as a function of time delay between the
two pulses. Our simulation results agree well with the experimental
observations.


Verifying Non-Abelian Statistics by Numerical Braiding Majorana Fermions

  Recently, Majorana fermions (MFs) have attracted intensive attention because
of their possible non-Abelian statistics. This paper points out an approach to
verify the non-Abelian statistics of MFs in topological superconductors. We
introduce a single particle representation of braiding operators that obey
anti-commutating relation of Bogolubov-de Gennes (BdG) states. From the
relationship between the braiding operator of MFs and that of BdG states, we
verify non-Abelian statistics of MFs in 1D and 2D topological SCs.


Effects of Attractive correlation on Topological Flat-bands Model

  In this paper, we study the effects of attractive correlation on the
topological insulator ($TI$) with topological flat-bands using an extended
attractive Kane-Mele-Hubbard model (KMHM). In the KMHM, we found a quantum
phase transition from $TI$ to the superconductor ($SC$) state upon the
increasing of the attractive Hubbard interaction $U$ at the mean field level.
This type of $SC$ phase transition is different from the traditional $SC$ phase
transition which develops from the gapless Fermi Liquid. Cooperon-type gapped
excitations exist in the $TI$ side near this type of $SC$ phase transition.


Classification of Majorana Fermions in Two-Dimensional Topological
  Superconductors

  Recently, Majorana Fermions (MFs) have attracted intensive attention due to
their exotic statistics and possible applications in topological quantum
computation (TQC). They are proposed to exist in various two-dimensional (2D)
topological systems, such as px+ipy topological superconductor and
nanowire-superconducting hybridization system. In this paper, two types of
Majorana Fermions with different polygon sign rules are pointed out. A "smoking
gun" numerical evidence to identify MF's classification is presented through
looking for the signature of a first order topological quantum phase
transition. By using it, several 2D topological superconductors are studied.


Composite Spin Liquid in Correlated Topological Insulator - Spin Liquid
  without Spin-Charge Separation

  In this paper, we found a new type of insulator - composite spin liquid which
can be regarded as a short range B-type topological spin-density-wave.
Composite spin liquid is topological ordered state beyond the classification of
traditional spin liquid states. The elementary excitations are the "composite
electrons" with both spin degree of freedom and charge degree of freedom,
together with topological spin texture. This topological state supports chiral
edge mode but no topological degeneracy.


Ferromagnetism and Antiferromagnetism of Correlated Topological
  Insulator with Flat Band

  In this paper, based on the mean field approach and
random-phase-approximation, we study the magnetic properties of the spinful
Haldane model on honeycomb lattice of topological flat band with on-site
repulsive Coulomb interaction. We find that the antiferromagnetic (AF) order is
more stable than ferromagnetic (FM) order at (or near) half-filling; while away
from half-filling the phase diagram becomes complex: At large doping, FM order
is more stable than AF order due to the flatness of band structure. In
particular, we find that at quarter filling case, the system becomes a Q=1$
topological insulator which is induced by the FM order.


Topological Superconductors in Correlated Chern Insulators

  In this paper, we realize a topological superconductor (TSC) in correlated
topological insulator - the interacting spinful Haldane model. We consider the
electrons on the Haldane model with on-site negative-U interaction and then
study its properties by mean field theory and random-phase-approximation (RPA)
approach. We found that in the intermediate interaction region, the ground
state becomes a TSC with the Chern number 2. We also study its edge states and
the zero modes of the pi-flux.


Magnetic Orders of Correlated Topological Insulators at Finite
  Temperature

  In this paper, we study the magnetic orders of two dimensional correlated
topological insulators including the correlated Chern insulator and the
correlated Z2 topological insulator at finite temperature. For the 2D
correlated Chern insulator, we found that thermal-fluctuation-induced magnetic
order appears in the intermediate interaction region of the correlated Chern
insulator. On the contrary, for the correlated Z2 topological insulator there
doesn't exist the thermal-fluctuation-induced magnetic order. In the end, we
give an explanation on the difference.


Topological Mid-gap States of Topological Insulators with
  Flux-Superlattice

  In this paper based on the Haldane model, we study the topological insulator
with superlattice of pi-fluxes. We find that there exist the mid-gap states
induced by the flux-superlattice. In particular, the mid-gap states have
nontrivial topological properties, including the nonzero Chern number and the
gapless edge states. We derive an effective tight-binding model to describe the
topological midgap states and then study the mid-gap states by the effective
tight-binding model. The results can be straightforwardly generalized to other
two dimensional topological insulators with flux-superlattice.


Theory of Vacancy-Induced Intrinsic Magnetic Impurity with
  Quasi-Localized Spin Moment in Graphene

  In this paper, by considering the Hubbard model on a honeycomb lattice, we
developed a theory for the intrinsic magnetic impurities (MIs) with the
quasi-localized spin moments induced by the vacancies in graphene. Because the
intrinsic MIs are characterized by the zero modes that are rthotropic to the
itinerant electrons, their properties are much different from those of Anderson
MIs with the well-localized spin moments.


Topological Hierarchy Insulators and Topological Fractal Insulators

  Topological insulators are new states of quantum matter with metallic
edge/surface states. In this paper, we pointed out that there exists a new type
of particle-hole symmetry-protected topological insulator - topological
hierarchy insulator (THI), a composite topological state of a (parent)
topological insulator and its defect-induced topological mid-gap states. A
particular type of THI is topological fractal insulator, that is a THI with
self-similar topological structure. In the end, we discuss the possible
experimental realizations of THIs.


On the Cauchy Problem of 3D Nonhomogeneous Navier-Stokes Equations with
  Density-Dependent Viscosity and Vacuum

  We consider the global existence and large-time asymptotic behavior of strong
solutions to the Cauchy problem of the three-dimensional nonhomogeneous
incompressible Navier-Stokes equations with density-dependent viscosity and
vacuum. We establish some key a priori exponential decay-in-time rates of the
strong solutions. Then after using these estimates, we also obtain the global
existence of strong solutions in the whole three-dimensional space, provided
that the initial velocity is suitably small in the $\dot H^\beta$-norm for some
$\beta\in(1/2,1].$ Note that this result is proved without any smallness
conditions on the initial density. Moreover, the density can contain vacuum
states and even have compact support initially.


Chiral Majorana edge state in a quantum anomalous Hall
  insulator-superconductor structure

  After the recognition of the possibility to implement Majorana fermions using
the building blocks of solid-state matters, the detection of this peculiar
particle has been an intense focus of research. Here we experimentally
demonstrate a collection of Majorana fermions living in a one-dimensional
transport channel at the boundary of a superconducting quantum anomalous Hall
insulator thin film. A series of topological phase changes are controlled by
the reversal of the magnetization, where a half-integer quantized conductance
plateau (0.5e2/h) is observed as a clear signature of the Majorana phase. This
transport signature can be well repeated during many magnetic reversal sweeps,
and can be tracked at different temperatures, providing a promising evidence of
the chiral Majorana edge modes in the system.


CD-CNN: A Partially Supervised Cross-Domain Deep Learning Model for
  Urban Resident Recognition

  Driven by the wave of urbanization in recent decades, the research topic
about migrant behavior analysis draws great attention from both academia and
the government. Nevertheless, subject to the cost of data collection and the
lack of modeling methods, most of existing studies use only questionnaire
surveys with sparse samples and non-individual level statistical data to
achieve coarse-grained studies of migrant behaviors. In this paper, a partially
supervised cross-domain deep learning model named CD-CNN is proposed for
migrant/native recognition using mobile phone signaling data as behavioral
features and questionnaire survey data as incomplete labels. Specifically,
CD-CNN features in decomposing the mobile data into location domain and
communication domain, and adopts a joint learning framework that combines two
convolutional neural networks with a feature balancing scheme. Moreover, CD-CNN
employs a three-step algorithm for training, in which the co-training step is
of great value to partially supervised cross-domain learning. Comparative
experiments on the city Wuxi demonstrate the high predictive power of CD-CNN.
Two interesting applications further highlight the ability of CD-CNN for
in-depth migrant behavioral analysis.


A Novel Symmetry Constraint Of The Super cKdV System

  A new (1+1)-dimensional integrable system, i. e. the super coupled
Korteweg-de Vries (cKdV) system, has been constructed by a super extension of
the well-known (1+1)-dimensional cKdV system. For this new system, a novel
symmetry constraint between the potential and eigenfunction can be obtained by
means of the binary nonlinearization of its Lax pairs. The constraints for even
variables are explicit and the constraints for odd variables are implicit.
Under the symmetry constraint, the spacial part and the temporal parts of the
equations associated with the Lax pairs for the super cKdV system can be
decomposed into the super finite-dimensional integrable Hamiltonian systems on
the supersymmetry manifold $R^{4N|2N+2}$, whose integrals of motion are
explicitly given.


Natural Electroweak Symmetry Breaking from Scale Invariant Higgs
  Mechanism

  We construct a minimal viable extension of the standard model (SM) with
classical scale symmetry. Its scalar sector contains a complex singlet in
addition to the SM Higgs doublet. The scale-invariant and CP-symmetric Higgs
potential generates radiative electroweak symmetry breaking a la
Coleman-Weinberg, and gives a natural solution to the hierarchy problem, free
from fine-tuning. Besides the 125GeV SM-like Higgs particle, it predicts a new
CP-even Higgs (serving as the pseudo-Nambu-Goldstone boson of scale symmetry
breaking) and a CP-odd scalar singlet (providing the dark matter candidate) at
weak scale. We systematically analyze experimental constraints from direct LHC
Higgs searches and electroweak precision tests, as well as theoretical bounds
from unitarity, triviality and vacuum stability. We demonstrate the viable
parameter space, and discuss implications for new Higgs and dark matter (DM)
searches at the upcoming LHC runs and for the on-going direct detections of DM.


Spontaneous CP Violating Phase as The CKM Matrix Phase

  We propose that the CP violating phase in the CKM mixing matrix is identical
to the CP phases responsible for the spontaneous CP violation in the Higgs
potential. A specific multi-Higgs model with Peccei-Quinn (PQ) symmetry is
constructed to realize this idea. The CP violating phase does not vanish when
all Higgs masses become large. There are flavor changing neutral current (FCNC)
interactions mediated by neutral Higgs bosons at the tree level. However,
unlike general multi-Higgs models, the FCNC Yukawa couplings are fixed in terms
of the quark masses and CKM mixing angles. Implications for meson-anti-meson
mixing, including recent data on $D-\bar D$ mixing, and neutron electric dipole
moment (EDM) are studied. We find that the neutral Higgs boson masses can be at
the order of one hundred GeV. The neutron EDM can be close to the present
experimental upper bound.


Empirical Likelihood for Right Censored Lifetime Data

  This paper considers the empirical likelihood (EL) construction of confidence
intervals for a linear functional based on right censored lifetime data. Many
of the results in literature show that log EL has a limiting scaled chi-square
distribution, where the scale parameter is a function of the unknown asymptotic
variance. The scale parameter has to be estimated for the construction.
Additional estimation would reduce the coverage accuracy for the parameter.
This diminishes a main advantage of the EL method for censored data. By
utilizing certain influence functions in an estimating equation, it is shown
that under very general conditions, log EL converges weakly to a standard
chi-square distribution and thereby eliminates the need for estimating the
scale parameter. Moreover, a special way of employing influence functions eases
the otherwise very demanding computations of the EL method. Our approach yields
smaller asymptotic variance of the influence function than those comparable
ones considered by Wang and Jing (2001) and Qin and Zhao (2007). Thus it is not
surprising that confidence intervals using influence functions give a better
coverage accuracy as demonstrated by simulations.


Plasmonic Crystal Cavity on Single-Mode Optical Fiber End Facet for
  Label-Free Biosensing

  All surface plasmon resonance (SPR) devices on single-mode optical fibers'
(SMF) end facets, as reported up to date, are limited by severely broad and
shallow resonance spectra. The consequent poor performance when they are used
as refractive index sensors, together with the challenge of nanofabrication on
fiber end facets, has prohibited the development of such devices for label-free
biosensing. Meanwhile, the planewave coupled, multimode fiber and fiber
sidewall SPR counterparts are extensively employed for label-free biosensing.
In this paper, we report the design, fabrication and characterization of a
plasmonic crystal cavity on a SMF end facet, which shows high performance
label-free sensing capability that comes from a steep cavity resonance near the
plasmonic bandedge. The experimental figure-of-merit is 68 RIU^-1, which is
over twenty times improvement to previous reports. The refractive index
detection limit is 3.5*10^-6 RIU at 1 s integration time. We also describe a
novel glue-and-strip process to transfer gold nano structures onto fiber end
facets.


Ultra-narrow Negative Flare Front Observed in Helium-10830~Å using
  the 1.6 m New Solar Telescope

  Solar flares are sudden flashes of brightness on the Sun and are often
associated with coronal mass ejections and solar energetic particles which have
adverse effects in the near Earth environment. By definition, flares are
usually referred to bright features resulting from excess emission. Using the
newly commissioned 1.6~m New Solar Telescope at Big Bear Solar Observatory,
here we show a striking "negative" flare with a narrow, but unambiguous "dark"
moving front observed in He I 10830 \AA, which is as narrow as 340 km and is
associated with distinct spectral characteristics in H-alpha and Mg II lines.
Theoretically, such negative contrast in He I 10830 \AA\ can be produced under
special circumstances, by nonthermal-electron collisions, or photoionization
followed by recombination. Our discovery, made possible due to unprecedented
spatial resolution, confirms the presence of the required plasma conditions and
provides unique information in understanding the energy release and radiative
transfer in astronomical objects.


Gravitational Interaction of Higgs Boson and Weak Boson Scattering

  With the LHC discovery of a 125 GeV Higgs-like boson, we study gravitational
interaction of the Higgs boson via the unique dimension-4 operator involving
Higgs doublet and scalar curvature, $\,\xi H^\dag H R\,$, with nonminimal
coupling $\,\xi\,$. This Higgs portal term can be transformed away in Einstein
frame and induces gauge-invariant effective interactions in the Higgs sector.
We study the weak boson scattering in Einstein frame, and explicitly
demonstrate the longitudinal-Goldstone boson equivalence theorem in the
presence of $\,\xi\,$ coupling. With these, we derive unitarity bound on the
Higgs gravitational coupling $\,\xi\,$ in Einstein frame, which is stronger
than that inferred from the current LHC Higgs measurements. We further study
$\xi$-dependent weak boson scattering cross sections at TeV scale, and propose
a new LHC probe of the Higgs-gravity coupling $\,\xi\,$ via weak boson
scattering experiments.


Revisiting the matter power spectra in $f(R)$ gravity

  In this paper, we study the non-linear matter power spectrum in a specific
family of $f(R)$ models that can reproduce the $\Lambda$CDM background
expansion history, using high resolution $N$-body simulations based on the {\sc
ecosmog} code. We measure the matter power spectrum in the range of $0.05h{\rm
Mpc}^{-1}<k<10h{\rm Mpc}^{-1}$ from simulations for our $f(R)$ models and give
theoretical explanations to their behaviour and evolution patterns. We also
examine the chameleon mechanism for our models and find that it works
throughout the cosmic history in dense regions, for our $f(R)$ models with
$|f_{R0}|<10^{-4}$. On the other hand, for models with $|f_{R0}|>10^{-3}$, we
find no chameleon screening in dense regions at late times ($z<3$), which means
that those models could be ruled out due to the factor-of-$1/3$ enhancement to
the strength of Newtonian gravity. We also give the best-fit parameters for a
generalised PPF fitting formula which works well for the models studied here.


