Optimal Multi-Robot Path Planning on Graphs: Structure and Computational
  Complexity

  We study the problem of optimal multi-robot path planning on graphs (MPP)
over four distinct minimization objectives: the total arrival time, the
makespan (last arrival time), the total distance, and the maximum (single-robot
traveled) distance. On the structure side, we show that each pair of these four
objectives induces a Pareto front and cannot always be optimized
simultaneously. Then, through reductions from 3-SAT, we further establish that
computation over each objective is an NP-hard task, providing evidence that
solving MPP optimally is generally intractable. Nevertheless, in a related
paper, we design complete algorithms and efficient heuristics for optimizing
all four objectives, capable of solving MPP optimally or near-optimally for
hundreds of robots in challenging setups.


Coordinating the Motion of Labeled Discs with Optimality Guarantees
  under Extreme Density

  We push the limit in planning collision-free motions for routing uniform
labeled discs in two dimensions. First, from a theoretical perspective, we show
that the constant-factor time-optimal routing of labeled discs can be achieved
using a polynomial-time algorithm with robot density over $50\%$ in the limit
(i.e., over half of the workspace may be occupied by the discs). Second, from a
more practical standpoint, we provide a high performance algorithm that
computes near-optimal (e.g., $1.x$) solutions under the same density setting.


Shortest Path Set Induced Vertex Ordering and its Application to
  Distributed Distance Optimal Multi-agent Formation Path Planning

  For the task of moving a group of indistinguishable agents on a connected
graph with unit edge lengths into an arbitrary goal formation, it was
previously shown that distance optimal paths can be scheduled to complete with
a tight convergence time guarantee, using a fully centralized algorithm. In
this study, we show that the problem formulation in fact induces a more
fundamental ordering of the vertices on the underlying graph network, which
directly leads to a more intuitive scheduling algorithm that assures the same
convergence time and runs faster. More importantly, this structure enables a
distributed scheduling algorithm once individual paths are assigned to the
agents, which was not possible before. The vertex ordering also readily extends
to more general graphs - those with non-unit capacities and edge lengths - for
which we again guarantee the convergence time until the desired formation is
achieved.


Pebble Motion on Graphs with Rotations: Efficient Feasibility Tests and
  Planning Algorithms

  We study the problem of planning paths for $p$ distinguishable pebbles
(robots) residing on the vertices of an $n$-vertex connected graph with $p \le
n$. A pebble may move from a vertex to an adjacent one in a time step provided
that it does not collide with other pebbles. When $p = n$, the only collision
free moves are synchronous rotations of pebbles on disjoint cycles of the
graph. We show that the feasibility of such problems is intrinsically
determined by the diameter of a (unique) permutation group induced by the
underlying graph. Roughly speaking, the diameter of a group $\mathbf G$ is the
minimum length of the generator product required to reach an arbitrary element
of $\mathbf G$ from the identity element. Through bounding the diameter of this
associated permutation group, which assumes a maximum value of $O(n^2)$, we
establish a linear time algorithm for deciding the feasibility of such problems
and an $O(n^3)$ algorithm for planning complete paths.


A Linear Time Algorithm for the Feasibility of Pebble Motion on Graphs

  Given a connected, undirected, simple graph $G = (V, E)$ and $p \le |V|$
pebbles labeled $1,..., p$, a configuration of these $p$ pebbles is an
injective map assigning the pebbles to vertices of $G$. Let $S$ and $D$ be two
such configurations. From a configuration, pebbles can move on $G$ as follows:
In each step, at most one pebble may move from the vertex it currently occupies
to an adjacent unoccupied vertex, yielding a new configuration. A natural
question in this setting is the following: Is configuration $D$ reachable from
$S$ and if so, how? We show that the feasibility of this problem can be decided
in time $O(|V| + |E|)$.


Optimal Tourist Problem and Anytime Planning of Trip Itineraries

  We introduce and study the problem in which a mobile sensing robot (our
tourist) is tasked to travel among and gather intelligence at a set of
spatially distributed point-of-interests (POIs). The quality of the information
collected at each POI is characterized by some non-decreasing reward function
over the time spent at the POI. With limited time budget, the robot must
balance between spending time traveling to POIs and spending time at POIs for
information collection (sensing) so as to maximize the total reward.
Alternatively, the robot may be required to acquire a minimum mount of reward
and hopes to do so with the least amount of time. We propose a mixed integer
programming (MIP) based anytime algorithm for solving these two NP-hard
optimization problems to arbitrary precision. The effectiveness of our
algorithm is demonstrated using an extensive set of computational experiments
including the planning of a realistic itinerary for a first-time tourist in
Istanbul.


Intractability of Optimal Multi-Robot Path Planning on Planar Graphs

  We study the computational complexity of optimally solving multi-robot path
planning problems on planar graphs. For four common time- and distance-based
objectives, we show that the associated path optimization problems for multiple
robots are all NP-complete, even when the underlying graph is planar.
Establishing the computational intractability of optimal multi-robot path
planning problems on planar graphs has important practical implications. In
particular, our result suggests the preferred approach toward solving such
problems, when the number of robots is large, is to augment the planar
environment to reduce the sharing of paths among robots traveling in opposite
directions on those paths. Indeed, such efficiency boosting structures, such as
highways and elevated intersections, are ubiquitous in robotics and
transportation applications.


An Effective Algorithmic Framework for Near Optimal Multi-Robot Path
  Planning

  We present a centralized algorithmic framework for solving multi-robot path
planning problems in general, two-dimensional, continuous environments while
minimizing globally the task completion time. The framework obtains high levels
of effectiveness through the composition of an optimal discretization of the
continuous environment and the subsequent fast, near-optimal resolution of the
resulting discrete planning problem. This principled approach achieves orders
of magnitudes better performance with respect to both speed and the supported
robot density. For a wide variety of environments, our method is shown to
compute globally near-optimal solutions for fifty robots in seconds with robots
packed close to each other. In the extreme, the method can consistently solve
problems with hundreds of robots that occupy over 30% of the free space.


Distance Optimal Formation Control on Graphs with a Tight Convergence
  Time Guarantee

  For the task of moving a set of indistinguishable agents on a connected graph
with unit edge distance to an arbitrary set of goal vertices, free of
collisions, we propose a fast distance optimal control algorithm that guides
the agents into the desired formation. Moreover, we show that the algorithm
also provides a tight convergence time guarantee (time optimality and distance
optimality cannot be simultaneously satisfied). Our generic graph formulation
allows the algorithm to be applied to scenarios such as grids with holes
(modeling obstacles) in arbitrary dimensions. Simulations, available online,
confirm our theoretical developments.


Planning Optimal Paths for Multiple Robots on Graphs

  In this paper, we study the problem of optimal multi-robot path planning
(MPP) on graphs. We propose two multiflow based integer linear programming
(ILP) models that computes minimum last arrival time and minimum total distance
solutions for our MPP formulation, respectively. The resulting algorithms from
these ILP models are complete and guaranteed to yield true optimal solutions.
In addition, our flexible framework can easily accommodate other variants of
the MPP problem. Focusing on the time optimal algorithm, we evaluate its
performance, both as a stand alone algorithm and as a generic heuristic for
quickly solving large problem instances. Computational results confirm the
effectiveness of our method.


Multi-agent Path Planning and Network Flow

  This paper connects multi-agent path planning on graphs (roadmaps) to network
flow problems, showing that the former can be reduced to the latter, therefore
enabling the application of combinatorial network flow algorithms, as well as
general linear program techniques, to multi-agent path planning problems on
graphs. Exploiting this connection, we show that when the goals are permutation
invariant, the problem always has a feasible solution path set with a longest
finish time of no more than $n + V - 1$ steps, in which $n$ is the number of
agents and $V$ is the number of vertices of the underlying graph. We then give
a complete algorithm that finds such a solution in $O(nVE)$ time, with $E$
being the number of edges of the graph. Taking a further step, we study time
and distance optimality of the feasible solutions, show that they have a
pairwise Pareto optimal structure, and again provide efficient algorithms for
optimizing two of these practical objectives.


Correlated Orienteering Problem and it Application to Persistent
  Monitoring Tasks

  We propose a novel non-linear extension to the Orienteering Problem (OP),
called the Correlated Orienteering Problem (COP). We use COP to model the
planning of informative tours for the persistent monitoring of a spatiotemporal
field with time-invariant spatial correlations, in which the tours are
constrained to have limited length. Our focus in this paper is QCOP a quadratic
COP formulation that only looks at correlations between neighboring nodes in a
node network. The main feature of QCOP is a quadratic utility function
capturing the said spatial correlation. QCOP may be solved using mixed integer
quadratic programming (MIQP), with the resulting anytime algorithm capable of
planning multiple disjoint tours that maximize the quadratic utility. In
particular, our algorithm can quickly plan a near-optimal tour over a network
with up to $150$ nodes. Besides performing extensive simulation studies to
verify the algorithm's correctness and characterize its performance, we also
successfully applied it to two realistic persistent monitoring tasks: (i)
estimation over a synthetic spatiotemporal field, and (ii) estimating the
temperature distribution in the state of Massachusetts.


Optimal Multi-Robot Path Planning on Graphs: Complete Algorithms and
  Effective Heuristics

  We study the problem of optimal multi-robot path planning on graphs MPP over
four distinct minimization objectives: the makespan (last arrival time), the
maximum (single-robot traveled) distance, the total arrival time, and the total
distance. In a related paper, we show that these objectives are distinct and
NP-hard to optimize. In this work, we focus on efficiently algorithmic
solutions for solving these optimal MPP problems. Toward this goal, we first
establish a one-to-one solution mapping between MPP and network-flow. Based on
this equivalence and integer linear programming (ILP), we design novel and
complete algorithms for optimizing over each of the four objectives. In
particular, our exact algorithm for computing optimal makespan solutions is a
first such that is capable of solving extremely challenging problems with
robot-vertex ratio as high as 100%. Then, we further improve the computational
performance of these exact algorithms through the introduction of principled
heuristics, at the expense of some optimality loss. The combination of ILP
model based algorithms and the heuristics proves to be highly effective,
allowing the computation of 1.x-optimal solutions for problems containing
hundreds of robots, densely populated in the environment, often in just
seconds.


A Portable, 3D-Printing Enabled Multi-Vehicle Platform for Robotics
  Research and Education

  microMVP is an affordable, portable, and open source micro-scale mobile robot
platform designed for robotics research and education. As a complete and unique
multi-vehicle platform enabled by 3D printing and the maker culture, microMVP
can be easily reproduced and requires little maintenance: a set of six micro
vehicles, each measuring $8\times 5\times 6$ cubic centimeters and weighing
under $100$ grams, and the accompanying tracking platform can be fully
assembled in under two hours, all from readily available components. In this
paper, we describe microMVP's hardware and software architecture, and the
design thoughts that go into the making of the platform. The capabilities of
microMVP APIs are then demonstrated with several single- and multi-robot path
and motion planning algorithms. microMVP supports all common operation systems.


Average Case Constant Factor Time and Distance Optimal Multi-Robot Path
  Planning in Well-Connected Environments

  Fast algorithms for optimal multi-robot path planning are sought after in
many real-world applications. Known methods, however, generally do not
simultaneously guarantee good solution optimality and fast run time (e.g.,
polynomial). In this work, we develop a low-polynomial running time algorithm,
called SplitAndGroup (SAG),that solves the multi-robot path planning problem on
grids and grid-like environments and produces constant factor makespan-optimal
solutions in the average case. That is, SAG is an average case
O(1)-approximation algorithm. SAG computes solutions with sub-linear makespan
and is capable of handling cases when the density of robots is extremely high -
in a graph-theoretic setting, the algorithm supports cases where all vertices
of the underlying graph are occupied by robots. SAG attains its desirable
properties through a careful combination of divide-and-conquer technique and
network flow based methods for routing the robots. Solutions from SAG, in a
weaker sense, is also a constant factor approximation on total distance
optimality.


Target Assignment in Robotic Networks: Distance Optimality Guarantees
  and Hierarchical Strategies

  We study the problem of multi-robot target assignment to minimize the total
distance traveled by the robots until they all reach an equal number of static
targets. In the first half of the paper, we present a necessary and sufficient
condition under which true distance optimality can be achieved for robots with
limited communication and target-sensing ranges. Moreover, we provide an
explicit, non-asymptotic formula for computing the number of robots needed to
achieve distance optimality in terms of the robots' communication and
target-sensing ranges with arbitrary guaranteed probabilities. The same bounds
are also shown to be asymptotically tight.
  In the second half of the paper, we present suboptimal strategies for use
when the number of robots cannot be chosen freely. Assuming first that all
targets are known to all robots, we employ a hierarchical communication model
in which robots communicate only with other robots in the same partitioned
region. This hierarchical communication model leads to constant approximations
of true distance-optimal solutions under mild assumptions. We then revisit the
limited communication and sensing models. By combining simple rendezvous-based
strategies with a hierarchical communication model, we obtain decentralized
hierarchical strategies that achieve constant approximation ratios with respect
to true distance optimality. Results of simulation show that the approximation
ratio is as low as 1.4.


High-Quality Tabletop Rearrangement with Overhand Grasps: Hardness
  Results and Fast Methods

  This paper studies the underlying combinatorial structure of a class of
object rearrangement problems, which appear frequently in applications. The
problems involve multiple, similar-geometry objects placed on a flat,
horizontal surface, where a robot can approach them from above and perform
pick-and-place operations to rearrange them. The paper considers both the case
where the start and goal object poses overlap, and where they do not. For
overlapping poses, the primary objective is to minimize the number of
pick-and-place actions and then to minimize the distance traveled by the
end-effector. For the non-overlapping case, the objective is solely to minimize
the end-effector distance. While such problems do not involve all the
complexities of general rearrangement, they remain computationally hard
challenges in both cases. This is shown through two-way reductions between
well-understood, hard combinatorial challenges and these rearrangement
problems. The benefit of the reduction is that there are well studied
algorithms for solving these well-established combinatorial challenges. These
algorithms can be very efficient in practice despite the hardness results. The
paper builds on these reduction results to propose an algorithmic pipeline for
dealing with the rearrangement problems. Experimental evaluation shows that the
proposed pipeline achieves high-quality paths with regards to the optimization
objectives. Furthermore, it exhibits highly desirable scalability as the number
of objects increases in both the overlapping and non-overlapping setups.


Complexity Results and Fast Methods for Optimal Tabletop Rearrangement
  with Overhand Grasps

  This paper studies the underlying combinatorial structure of a class of
object rearrangement problems, which appear frequently in applications. The
problems involve multiple, similar-geometry objects placed on a flat,
horizontal surface, where a robot can approach them from above and perform
pick-and-place operations to rearrange them. The paper considers both the case
where the start and goal object poses overlap, and where they do not. For
overlapping poses, the primary objective is to minimize the number of
pick-and-place actions and then to minimize the distance traveled by the
end-effector. For the non-overlapping case, the objective is solely to minimize
the travel distance of the end-effector. While such problems do not involve all
the complexities of general rearrangement, they remain computationally hard in
both cases. This is shown through reductions from well-understood, hard
combinatorial challenges to these rearrangement problems. The reductions are
also shown to hold in the reverse direction, which enables the convenient
application on rearrangement of well studied algorithms. These algorithms can
be very efficient in practice despite the hardness results. The paper builds on
these reduction results to propose an algorithmic pipeline for dealing with the
rearrangement problems. Experimental evaluation, including hardware-based
trials, shows that the proposed pipeline computes high-quality paths with
regards to the optimization objectives. Furthermore, it exhibits highly
desirable scalability as the number of objects increases in both the
overlapping and non-overlapping setup.


Constant Factor Time Optimal Multi-Robot Routing on High-Dimensional
  Grids in Mostly Sub-Quadratic Time

  Let $G = (V, E)$ be an $m_1 \times \ldots \times m_k$ grid. Assuming that
each $v \in V$ is occupied by a robot and a robot may move to a neighboring
vertex in a step via synchronized rotations along cycles of $G$, we first
establish that the arbitrary reconfiguration of labeled robots on $G$ can be
performed in $O(k\sum_i m_i)$ makespan and requires $O(|V|^2)$ running time in
the worst case and $o(|V|^2)$ when $G$ is non-degenerate (in the current
context, a grid is degenerate if it is nearly one dimensional). The resulting
algorithm, iSAG, provides average case $O(1)$-approximate (i.e.,
constant-factor) time optimality guarantee. When all dimensions are of similar
size $O(|V|^{\frac{1}{k}})$, the running time of iSAG approaches a linear
$O(|V|)$. Define $d_g(p)$ as the largest distance between individual initial
and goal configurations over all robots for a given problem instance $p$,
building on iSAG, we develop the PartitionAndFlow (PAF) algorithm that computes
$O(d_g(p))$ makespan solutions for arbitrary fixed $k \ge 2$, using mostly
$o(|V|^2)$ running time. PAF provides worst case $O(1)$-approximation regarding
solution time optimality. We note that the worst case running time for the
problem is $\Omega(|V|^2)$.


Persistent Monitoring of Events with Stochastic Arrivals at Multiple
  Stations

  This paper introduces a new mobile sensor scheduling problem, involving a
single robot tasked with monitoring several events of interest that occur at
different locations. Of particular interest is the monitoring of transient
events that can not be easily forecast. Application areas range from natural
phenomena ({\em e.g.}, monitoring abnormal seismic activity around a volcano
using a ground robot) to urban activities ({\em e.g.}, monitoring early
formations of traffic congestion using an aerial robot). Motivated by those and
many other examples, this paper focuses on problems in which the precise
occurrence times of the events are unknown {\em a priori}, but statistics for
their inter-arrival times are available. The robot's task is to monitor the
events to optimize the following two objectives: {\em (i)} maximize the number
of events observed and {\em (ii)} minimize the delay between two consecutive
observations of events occurring at the same location. The paper considers the
case when a robot is tasked with optimizing the event observations in a
balanced manner, following a cyclic patrolling route. First, assuming the
cyclic ordering of stations is known, we prove the existence and uniqueness of
the optimal solution, and show that the optimal solution has desirable
convergence and robustness properties. Our constructive proof also produces an
efficient algorithm for computing the unique optimal solution with $O(n)$ time
complexity, in which $n$ is the number of stations, with $O(\log n)$ time
complexity for incrementally adding or removing stations. Except for the
algorithm, most of the analysis remains valid when the cyclic order is unknown.
We then provide a polynomial-time approximation scheme that gives a
$(1+\epsilon)$-optimal solution for this more general, NP-hard problem.


Motion Planning for Unlabeled Discs with Optimality Guarantees

  We study the problem of path planning for unlabeled (indistinguishable)
unit-disc robots in a planar environment cluttered with polygonal obstacles. We
introduce an algorithm which minimizes the total path length, i.e., the sum of
lengths of the individual paths. Our algorithm is guaranteed to find a solution
if one exists, or report that none exists otherwise. It runs in time
$\tilde{O}(m^4+m^2n^2)$, where $m$ is the number of robots and $n$ is the total
complexity of the workspace. Moreover, the total length of the returned
solution is at most $\text{OPT}+4m$, where OPT is the optimal solution cost. To
the best of our knowledge this is the first algorithm for the problem that has
such guarantees. The algorithm has been implemented in an exact manner and we
present experimental results that attest to its efficiency.


Efficient, High-Quality Stack Rearrangement

  This work studies rearrangement problems involving the sorting of robots or
objects in stack-like containers, which can be accessed only from one side. Two
scenarios are considered: one where every robot or object needs to reach a
particular stack, and a setting in which each robot has a distinct position
within a stack. In both cases, the goal is to minimize the number of stack
removals that need to be performed. Stack rearrangement is shown to be
intimately connected to pebble motion problems, a useful abstraction in
multi-robot path planning. Through this connection, feasibility of stack
rearrangement can be readily addressed. The paper continues to establish lower
and upper bounds on optimality, which differ only by a logarithmic factor, in
terms of stack removals. An algorithmic solution is then developed that
produces suboptimal paths much quicker than a pebble motion solver.
Furthermore, informed search-based methods are proposed for finding
high-quality solutions. The efficiency and desirable scalability of the methods
is demonstrated in simulation.


SEAR: A Polynomial-Time Multi-Robot Path Planning Algorithm with
  Expected Constant-Factor Optimality Guarantee

  We study the labeled multi-robot path planning problem in continuous 2D and
3D domains in the absence of obstacles where robots must not collide with each
other. For an arbitrary number of robots in arbitrary initial and goal
arrangements, we derive a polynomial time, complete algorithm that produces
solutions with constant-factor optimality guarantees on both makespan and
distance optimality, in expectation, under the assumption that the robot labels
are uniformly randomly distributed. Our algorithm only requires a small
constant factor expansion of the initial and goal configuration footprints for
solving the problem, i.e., the problem can be solved in a fairly small bounded
region. Beside theoretical guarantees, we present a thorough computational
evaluation of the proposed solution. In addition to the baseline
implementation, adapting an effective (but non-polynomial time) routing
subroutine, we also provide a highly efficient implementation that quickly
computes near-optimal solutions. Hardware experiments on the microMVP platform
composed of non-holonomic robots confirms the practical applicability of our
algorithmic pipeline.


Fast, High-Quality Dual-Arm Rearrangement in Synchronous, Monotone
  Tabletop Setups

  Rearranging objects on a planar surface arises in a variety of robotic
applications, such as product packaging. Using two arms can improve efficiency
but introduces new computational challenges. This paper studies the structure
of dual-arm rearrangement for synchronous, monotone tabletop setups and
develops an optimal mixed integer model. It then describes an efficient and
scalable algorithm, which first minimizes the cost of object transfers and then
of moves between objects. This is motivated by the fact that, asymptotically,
object transfers dominate the cost of solutions. Moreover, a lazy strategy
minimizes the number of motion planning calls and results in significant
speedups. Theoretical arguments support the benefits of using two arms and
indicate that synchronous execution, in which the two arms perform together
either transfers or moves, introduces only a small overhead. Experiments
support these points and show that the scalable method can quickly compute
solutions close to the optimal for the considered setup.


Integer Programming as a General Solution Methodology for Path-Based
  Optimization in Robotics: Principles, Best Practices, and Applications

  Integer programming (IP) has proven to be highly effective in solving many
path-based optimization problems in robotics. However, the applications of IP
are generally done in an ad-hoc, problem specific manner. In this work, after
examined a wide range of path-based optimization problems, we describe an IP
solution methodology for these problems that is both easy to apply (in two
simple steps) and high-performance in terms of the computation time and the
achieved optimality. We demonstrate the generality of our approach through the
application to three challenging path-based optimization problems: multi-robot
path planning (MPP), minimum constraint removal (MCR), and reward collection
problems RCPs). Associated experiments show that the approach can efficiently
produce (near-)optimal solutions for problems with large state spaces, complex
constraints, and complicated objective functions. In conjunction with the
proposition of the IP methodology, we introduce two new and practical robotics
problems: multi-robot minimum constraint removal (MMCR) and multi-robot path
planning (MPP) with partial solutions, which can be quickly and effectively
solved using our proposed IP solution pipeline.


DDM*: Fast Near-Optimal Multi-Robot Path Planning using Diversified-Path
  and Optimal Sub-Problem Solution Database Heuristics

  We propose a novel centralized and decoupled algorithm, DDM*, for solving
one-shot and dynamic optimal multi-robot path planning problems in a
graph-based setting. Among other techniques, DDM* is mainly enabled through
exploiting two innovative heuristics: path diversification and optimal
sub-problem solution databases. The two heuristics attack two distinct phases
of a decoupling-based planner: while path diversification allows more effective
use of the entire workspace for robot travel, optimal sub-problem solution
databases facilitate the fast resolution of local path conflicts. Extensive
evaluation demonstrates that DDM* achieves both great scalability and a high
level of solution optimality.


Asset Allocation and Risk Assessment with Gross Exposure Constraints for
  Vast Portfolios

  Markowitz (1952, 1959) laid down the ground-breaking work on the
mean-variance analysis. Under his framework, the theoretical optimal allocation
vector can be very different from the estimated one for large portfolios due to
the intrinsic difficulty of estimating a vast covariance matrix and return
vector. This can result in adverse performance in portfolio selected based on
empirical data due to the accumulation of estimation errors. We address this
problem by introducing the gross-exposure constrained mean-variance portfolio
selection. We show that with gross-exposure constraint the theoretical optimal
portfolios have similar performance to the empirically selected ones based on
estimated covariance matrices and there is no error accumulation effect from
estimation of vast covariance matrices. This gives theoretical justification to
the empirical results in Jagannathan and Ma (2003). We also show that the
no-short-sale portfolio is not diversified enough and can be improved by
allowing some short positions. As the constraint on short sales relaxes, the
number of selected assets varies from a small number to the total number of
stocks, when tracking portfolios or selecting assets. This achieves the optimal
sparse portfolio selection, which has close performance to the theoretical
optimal one. Among 1000 stocks, for example, we are able to identify all
optimal subsets of portfolios of different sizes, their associated allocation
vectors, and their estimated risks. The utility of our new approach is
illustrated by simulation and empirical studies on the 100 Fama-French
industrial portfolios and the 400 stocks randomly selected from Russell 3000.


Towards Robust Product Packing with a Minimalistic End-Effector

  Advances in sensor technologies, object detection algorithms, planning
frameworks and hardware designs have motivated the deployment of robots in
warehouse automation. A variety of such applications, like order fulfillment or
packing tasks, require picking objects from unstructured piles and carefully
arranging them in bins or containers. Desirable solutions need to be low-cost,
easily deployable and controllable, making minimalistic hardware choices
desirable. The challenge in designing an effective solution to this problem
relates to appropriately integrating multiple components, so as to achieve a
robust pipeline that minimizes failure conditions. The current work proposes a
complete pipeline for solving such packing tasks, given access only to RGB-D
data and a single robot arm with a vacuum-based end-effector, which is also
used as a pushing finger. To achieve the desired level of robustness, three key
manipulation primitives are identified, which take advantage of the environment
and simple operations to successfully pack multiple cubic objects. The overall
approach is demonstrated to be robust to execution and perception errors. The
impact of each manipulation primitive is evaluated by considering different
versions of the proposed pipeline, which incrementally introduce reasoning
about object poses and corrective manipulation actions.


