Detecting Reflected Light from Close-In Extrasolar Giant Planets with
  the Kepler Photometer

  NASA's Kepler Mission promises to detect transiting Earth-sized planets in
the habitable zones of solar-like stars. In addition, it will be poised to
detect the reflected light component from close-in extrasolar giant planets
(CEGPs) similar to 51 Peg b. Here we use the DIARAD/SOHO time series along with
models for the reflected light signatures of CEGPs to evaluate Kepler's ability
to detect such planets. We examine the detectability as a function of stellar
brightness, stellar rotation period, planetary orbital inclination angle, and
planetary orbital period, and then estimate the total number of CEGPs that
Kepler will detect over its four year mission. The analysis shows that
intrinsic stellar variability of solar-like stars is a major obstacle to
detecting the reflected light from CEGPs. Monte Carlo trials are used to
estimate the detection threshold required to limit the total number of expected
false alarms to no more than one for a survey of 100,000 stellar light curves.
Kepler will likely detect 100-760 51 Peg b-like planets by reflected light with
orbital periods up to 7 days.


Bayesian Neural Networks for Genetic Association Studies of Complex
  Disease

  Discovering causal genetic variants from large genetic association studies
poses many difficult challenges. Assessing which genetic markers are involved
in determining trait status is a computationally demanding task, especially in
the presence of gene-gene interactions. A non-parametric Bayesian approach in
the form of a Bayesian neural network is proposed for use in analyzing genetic
association studies. Demonstrations on synthetic and real data reveal they are
able to efficiently and accurately determine which variants are involved in
determining case-control status. Using graphics processing units (GPUs) the
time needed to build these models is decreased by several orders of magnitude.
In comparison with commonly used approaches for detecting genetic interactions,
Bayesian neural networks perform very well across a broad spectrum of possible
genetic relationships while having the computational efficiency needed to
handle large datasets.


Observational Limits on Terrestrial-Sized Inner Planets Around the CM
  Draconis System Using the Photometric Transit Method with a Matched-Filter
  Algorithm

  A lightcurve of the eclipsing binary CM Draconis has been analyzed for the
presence of transits of planets of size >= 2.5 Earth-radii (Re), with periods
of 60 days or less, and in co-planar orbits around the binary system. About 400
million model lightcurves, representing transits from planets with periods
ranging from 7 to 60 days, have been matched/correlated against these data.
This process we call the "transit detection algorithm" or TDA. The resulting
`transit-statistics' for each planet candidate allow the quantification of
detection probabilities, and of false alarm rates.
  Our current lightcurve of CM Dra has a coverage of 1014 hours with 26,043
individual points, at a photometric precision between 0.2% and 0.7%. Planets
significantly larger then 3Re would constitute a `supra-noise' detection, and
for periods of 60 days or less, they would have been detected with a
probability of 90%. `Subnoise' detections of smaller planets are more
constrained. For example, 2.5 Re planets with 10-day periods or less would have
been detected with an 80% probability. The necessity for predicted observations
is illustrated with the nine top planet candidates that emerged from our TDA
analysis. They are the planet candidates with the highest transit-statistics
from the 1994-1998 observing seasons and, for them, transits for the 1999
observing season were predicted. Of the seven candidates that were then
observationally tested in 1999, all were ruled out except one, which needs
further observational confirmation. We conclude that the photometric transit
method is a viable way to search for relatively small, inner extrasolar planets
with moderate-sized telescopes using CCD photometry with a matching-filter
analysis.


Fast Hamiltonian Monte Carlo Using GPU Computing

  In recent years, the Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (HMC) algorithm has been found
to work more efficiently compared to other popular Markov Chain Monte Carlo
(MCMC) methods (such as random walk Metropolis-Hastings) in generating samples
from a posterior distribution. A general framework for HMC based on the use of
graphical processing units (GPUs) is shown to greatly reduce the computing time
needed for Bayesian inference. The most expensive computational tasks in HMC
are the evaluation of the posterior kernel and computing its gradient with
respect to the parameters of interest. One of primary goals of this article to
show that by expressing each of these tasks in terms of simple matrix or
element-wise operations and maintaining persistent objects in GPU memory, the
computational time can be drastically reduced. By using GPU objects to perform
the entire HMC simulation, most of the latency penalties associated with
transferring data from main to GPU memory can be avoided. Thus, the proposed
computational framework is conceptually very simple, but also is general enough
to be applied to most problems that use HMC sampling. For clarity of
exposition, the effectiveness of the proposed approach is demonstrated in the
high-dimensional setting on a standard statistical model - multinomial
regression. Using GPUs, analyses of data sets that were previously intractable
for fully Bayesian approaches due to the prohibitively high computational cost
are now feasible.


Assessing Achievability of Queries and Constraints

  Assessing and improving the quality of data in data-intensive systems are
fundamental challenges that have given rise to numerous applications targeting
transformation and cleaning of data. However, while schema design, data
cleaning, and data migration are nowadays reasonably well understood in
isolation, not much attention has been given to the interplay between the tools
that address issues in these areas. Our focus is on the problem of determining
whether there exist sequences of data-transforming procedures that, when
applied to the (untransformed) input data, would yield data satisfying the
conditions required for performing the task in question. Our goal is to develop
a framework that would address this problem, starting with the relational
setting.
  In this paper we abstract data-processing tools as black-box procedures. This
abstraction describes procedures by a specification of which parts of the
database might be modified by the procedure, as well as by the constraints that
specify the required states of the database before and after applying the
procedure. We then proceed to study fundamental algorithmic questions arising
in this context, such as understanding when one can guarantee that sequences of
procedures apply to original or transformed data, when they succeed at
improving the data, and when knowledge bases can represent the outcomes of
procedures. Finally, we turn to the problem of determining whether the
application of a sequence of procedures to a database results in the
satisfaction of properties specified by either queries or constraints. We show
that this problem is decidable for some broad and realistic classes of
procedures and properties, even when procedures are allowed to alter the schema
of instances.


Kepler Eclipsing Binary Stars. I. Catalog and Principal Characterization
  of 1879 Eclipsing Binaries in the First Data Release

  The Kepler space mission is devoted to finding Earth-size planets in
habitable zones orbiting other stars. Its large, 105-deg field-of-view features
over 156,000 stars that are observed continuously to detect and characterize
planet transits. Yet this high-precision instrument holds great promise for
other types of objects as well. Here we present a comprehensive catalog of
eclipsing binary stars observed by Kepler in the first 44 days of operation,
the data which are publicly available through MAST as of 6/15/2010. The catalog
contains 1879 unique objects. For each object we provide its Kepler ID (KID),
ephemeris (BJD0, P0), morphology type, physical parameters (Teff, log g,
E(B-V), crowding), and principal parameters (T2/T1, q, fillout factor and sin i
for overcontacts, and T2/T1, (R1+R2)/a, e sin(w), e cos(w), and sin i for
detached binaries). We present statistics based on the determined periods and
measure an average occurence rate of eclipsing binaries to be ~1.2% across the
Kepler field. We further discuss the distribution of binaries as function of
galactic latitude, and thoroughly explain the application of artificial
intelligence to obtain principal parameters in a matter of seconds for the
whole sample. The catalog was envisioned to serve as a bridge between the now
public Kepler data and the scientific community interested in eclipsing binary
stars.


Kepler Eclipsing Binary Stars. II. 2165 Eclipsing Binaries in the Second
  Data Release

  The Kepler Mission provides nearly continuous monitoring of ~156 000 objects
with unprecedented photometric precision. Coincident with the first data
release, we presented a catalog of 1879 eclipsing binary systems identified
within the 115 square degree Kepler FOV. Here, we provide an updated catalog
augmented with the second Kepler data release which increases the baseline
nearly 4-fold to 125 days. 386 new systems have been added, ephemerides and
principle parameters have been recomputed. We have removed 42 previously
cataloged systems that are now clearly recognized as short-period pulsating
variables and another 58 blended systems where we have determined that the
Kepler target object is not itself the eclipsing binary. A number of
interesting objects are identified. We present several exemplary cases: 4 EBs
that exhibit extra (tertiary) eclipse events; and 8 systems that show clear
eclipse timing variations indicative of the presence of additional bodies bound
in the system. We have updated the period and galactic latitude distribution
diagrams. With these changes, the total number of identified eclipsing binary
systems in the Kepler field-of-view has increased to 2165, 1.4% of the Kepler
target stars.


The Neptune-Sized Circumbinary Planet Kepler-38b

  We discuss the discovery and characterization of the circumbinary planet
Kepler-38b. The stellar binary is single-lined, with a period of 18.8 days, and
consists of a moderately evolved main-sequence star (M_A = 0.949 +/- 0.059
solar masses and R_A = 1.757 +/- 0.034 solar radii) paired with a low-mass star
(M_B = 0.249 +/- 0.010 solar masses and R_B = 0.2724 +/- 0.0053 solar radii) in
a mildly eccentric (e=0.103) orbit. A total of eight transits due to a
circumbinary planet crossing the primary star were identified in the Kepler
light curve (using Kepler Quarters 1 through 11), from which a planetary period
of 105.595 +/- 0.053 days can be established. A photometric dynamical model fit
to the radial velocity curve and Kepler light curve yields a planetary radius
of 4.35 +/- 0.11 Earth radii, or 1.12 +/- 0.03 Neptune radii. Since the planet
is not sufficiently massive to observably alter the orbit of the binary from
Keplerian motion, we can only place an upper limit on the mass of the planet of
122 Earth masses (7.11 Neptune masses or 0.384 Jupiter masses) at 95%
confidence. This upper limit should decrease as more Kepler data become
available.


Kepler-47: A Transiting Circumbinary Multi-Planet System

  We report the detection of Kepler-47, a system consisting of two planets
orbiting around an eclipsing pair of stars. The inner and outer planets have
radii 3.0 and 4.6 times that of the Earth, respectively. The binary star
consists of a Sun-like star and a companion roughly one-third its size,
orbiting each other every 7.45 days. With an orbital period of 49.5 days,
eighteen transits of the inner planet have been observed, allowing a detailed
characterization of its orbit and those of the stars. The outer planet's
orbital period is 303.2 days, and although the planet is not Earth-like, it
resides within the classical "habitable zone", where liquid water could exist
on an Earth-like planet. With its two known planets, Kepler-47 establishes that
close binary stars can host complete planetary systems.


Kepler-1647b: the largest and longest-period Kepler transiting
  circumbinary planet

  We report the discovery of a new Kepler transiting circumbinary planet (CBP).
This latest addition to the still-small family of CBPs defies the current trend
of known short-period planets orbiting near the stability limit of binary
stars. Unlike the previous discoveries, the planet revolving around the
eclipsing binary system Kepler-1647 has a very long orbital period (~1100 days)
and was at conjunction only twice during the Kepler mission lifetime. Due to
the singular configuration of the system, Kepler-1647b is not only the
longest-period transiting CBP at the time of writing, but also one of the
longest-period transiting planets. With a radius of 1.06+/-0.01 RJup it is also
the largest CBP to date. The planet produced three transits in the light-curve
of Kepler-1647 (one of them during an eclipse, creating a syzygy) and
measurably perturbed the times of the stellar eclipses, allowing us to measure
its mass to be 1.52+/-0.65 MJup. The planet revolves around an 11-day period
eclipsing binary consisting of two Solar-mass stars on a slightly inclined,
mildly eccentric (e_bin = 0.16), spin-synchronized orbit. Despite having an
orbital period three times longer than Earth's, Kepler-1647b is in the
conservative habitable zone of the binary star throughout its orbit.


Spin-Orbit Alignment for the Circumbinary Planet Host Kepler-16A

  Kepler-16 is an eccentric low-mass eclipsing binary with a circumbinary
transiting planet. Here we investigate the angular momentum of the primary
star, based on Kepler photometry and Keck spectroscopy. The primary star's
rotation period is 35.1 +/- 1.0 days, and its projected obliquity with respect
to the stellar binary orbit is 1.6 +/- 2.4 degrees. Therefore the three largest
sources of angular momentum---the stellar orbit, the planetary orbit, and the
primary's rotation---are all closely aligned. This finding supports a formation
scenario involving accretion from a single disk. Alternatively, tides may have
realigned the stars despite their relatively wide separation (0.2 AU), a
hypothesis that is supported by the agreement between the measured rotation
period and the "pseudosynchronous" period of tidal evolution theory. The
rotation period, chromospheric activity level, and fractional light variations
suggest a main-sequence age of 2-4 Gyr. Evolutionary models of low-mass stars
can match the observed masses and radii of the primary and secondary stars to
within about 3%.


Kepler-16: A Transiting Circumbinary Planet

  We report the detection of a planet whose orbit surrounds a pair of low-mass
stars. Data from the Kepler spacecraft reveal transits of the planet across
both stars, in addition to the mutual eclipses of the stars, giving precise
constraints on the absolute dimensions of all three bodies. The planet is
comparable to Saturn in mass and size, and is on a nearly circular 229-day
orbit around its two parent stars. The eclipsing stars are 20% and 69% as
massive as the sun, and have an eccentric 41-day orbit. The motions of all
three bodies are confined to within 0.5 degree of a single plane, suggesting
that the planet formed within a circumbinary disk.


A Framework for Assessing Achievability of Data-Quality Constraints

  Assessing and improving the quality of data are fundamental challenges for
data-intensive systems that have given rise to applications targeting
transformation and cleaning of data. However, while schema design, data
cleaning, and data migration are now reasonably well understood in isolation,
not much attention has been given to the interplay between the tools addressing
issues in these areas. We focus on the problem of determining whether the
available data-processing procedures can be used together to bring about the
desired quality of the given data. For instance, consider an organization
introducing new data-analysis tasks. Depending on the tasks, it may be a
priority to determine whether the data can be processed and transformed using
the available data-processing tools to satisfy certain properties or quality
assurances needed for the success of the task. Here, while the organization may
control some of its tools, some other tools may be external or proprietary,
with only basic information available on how they process data. The problem is
then, how to decide which tools to apply, and in which order, to make the data
ready for the new tasks?
  Toward addressing this problem, we develop a new framework that abstracts
data-processing tools as black-box procedures with only some of the properties
exposed, such as the applicability requirements, the parts of the data that the
procedure modifies, and the conditions that the data satisfy once the procedure
has been applied. We show how common tasks such as data cleaning and data
migration are encapsulated into our framework and, as a proof of concept, we
study basic properties of the framework for the case of procedures described by
standard relational constraints. While reasoning in this framework may be
computationally infeasible in general, we show that there exist well-behaved
special cases with potential practical applications.


GAMA: towards a physical understanding of galaxy formation

  The Galaxy And Mass Assembly (GAMA) project is the latest in a tradition of
large galaxy redshift surveys, and is now underway on the 3.9m Anglo-Australian
Telescope at Siding Spring Observatory. GAMA is designed to map extragalactic
structures on scales of 1kpc - 1Mpc in complete detail to a redshift of z~0.2,
and to trace the distribution of luminous galaxies out to z~0.5. The principal
science aim is to test the standard hierarchical structure formation paradigm
of Cold Dark Matter (CDM) on scales of galaxy groups, pairs, discs, bulges and
bars. We will measure (1) the Dark Matter Halo Mass Function (as inferred from
galaxy group velocity dispersions); (2) baryonic processes, such as star
formation and galaxy formation efficiency (as derived from Galaxy Stellar Mass
Functions); and (3) the evolution of galaxy merger rates (via galaxy close
pairs and galaxy asymmetries). Additionally, GAMA will form the central part of
a new galaxy database, which aims to contain 275,000 galaxies with
multi-wavelength coverage from coordinated observations with the latest
international ground- and space-based facilities: GALEX, VST, VISTA, WISE,
HERSCHEL, GMRT and ASKAP. Together, these data will provide increased depth
(over 2 magnitudes), doubled spatial resolution (0.7"), and significantly
extended wavelength coverage (UV through Far-IR to radio) over the main SDSS
spectroscopic survey for five regions, each of around 50 deg^2. This database
will permit detailed investigations of the structural, chemical, and dynamical
properties of all galaxy types, across all environments, and over a 5 billion
year timeline.


The Transiting Circumbinary Planets Kepler-34 and Kepler-35

  Most Sun-like stars in the Galaxy reside in gravitationally-bound pairs of
stars called "binary stars". While long anticipated, the existence of a
"circumbinary planet" orbiting such a pair of normal stars was not definitively
established until the discovery of Kepler-16. Incontrovertible evidence was
provided by the miniature eclipses ("transits") of the stars by the planet.
However, questions remain about the prevalence of circumbinary planets and
their range of orbital and physical properties. Here we present two additional
transiting circumbinary planets, Kepler-34 and Kepler-35. Each is a low-density
gas giant planet on an orbit closely aligned with that of its parent stars.
Kepler-34 orbits two Sun-like stars every 289 days, while Kepler-35 orbits a
pair of smaller stars (89% and 81% of the Sun's mass) every 131 days. Due to
the orbital motion of the stars, the planets experience large multi-periodic
variations in incident stellar radiation. The observed rate of circumbinary
planets implies > ~1% of close binary stars have giant planets in nearly
coplanar orbits, yielding a Galactic population of at least several million.


Characteristics of planetary candidates observed by Kepler, II: Analysis
  of the first four months of data

  On 1 February 2011 the Kepler Mission released data for 156,453 stars
observed from the beginning of the science observations on 2 May through 16
September 2009. There are 1235 planetary candidates with transit like
signatures detected in this period. These are associated with 997 host stars.
Distributions of the characteristics of the planetary candidates are separated
into five class-sizes; 68 candidates of approximately Earth-size (radius < 1.25
Earth radii), 288 super-Earth size (1.25 Earth radii < radius < 2 Earth radii),
662 Neptune-size (2 Earth radii < radius < 6 Earth radii), 165 Jupiter-size (6
Earth radii < radius < 15 Earth radii), and 19 up to twice the size of Jupiter
(15 Earth radii < radius < 22 Earth radii). In the temperature range
appropriate for the habitable zone, 54 candidates are found with sizes ranging
from Earth-size to larger than that of Jupiter. Five are less than twice the
size of the Earth. Over 74% of the planetary candidates are smaller than
Neptune. The observed number versus size distribution of planetary candidates
increases to a peak at two to three times Earth-size and then declines
inversely proportional to area of the candidate. Our current best estimates of
the intrinsic frequencies of planetary candidates, after correcting for
geometric and sensitivity biases, are 6% for Earth-size candidates, 7% for
super-Earth size candidates, 17% for Neptune-size candidates, and 4% for
Jupiter-size candidates. Multi-candidate, transiting systems are frequent; 17%
of the host stars have multi-candidate systems, and 33.9% of all the candidates
are part of multi-candidate systems.


Kepler-22b: A 2.4 Earth-radius Planet in the Habitable Zone of a
  Sun-like Star

  A search of the time-series photometry from NASA's Kepler spacecraft reveals
a transiting planet candidate orbiting the 11th magnitude G5 dwarf KIC 10593626
with a period of 290 days. The characteristics of the host star are well
constrained by high-resolution spectroscopy combined with an asteroseismic
analysis of the Kepler photometry, leading to an estimated mass and radius of
0.970 +/- 0.060 MSun and 0.979 +/- 0.020 RSun. The depth of 492 +/- 10ppm for
the three observed transits yields a radius of 2.38 +/- 0.13 REarth for the
planet. The system passes a battery of tests for false positives, including
reconnaissance spectroscopy, high-resolution imaging, and centroid motion. A
full BLENDER analysis provides further validation of the planet interpretation
by showing that contamination of the target by an eclipsing system would rarely
mimic the observed shape of the transits. The final validation of the planet is
provided by 16 radial velocities obtained with HIRES on Keck 1 over a one year
span. Although the velocities do not lead to a reliable orbit and mass
determination, they are able to constrain the mass to a 3{\sigma} upper limit
of 124 MEarth, safely in the regime of planetary masses, thus earning the
designation Kepler-22b. The radiative equilibrium temperature is 262K for a
planet in Kepler-22b's orbit. Although there is no evidence that Kepler-22b is
a rocky planet, it is the first confirmed planet with a measured radius to
orbit in the Habitable Zone of any star other than the Sun.


Planetary Candidates Observed by Kepler. VIII. A Fully Automated Catalog
  With Measured Completeness and Reliability Based on Data Release 25

  We present the Kepler Object of Interest (KOI) catalog of transiting
exoplanets based on searching four years of Kepler time series photometry (Data
Release 25, Q1-Q17). The catalog contains 8054 KOIs of which 4034 are planet
candidates with periods between 0.25 and 632 days. Of these candidates, 219 are
new and include two in multi-planet systems (KOI-82.06 and KOI-2926.05), and
ten high-reliability, terrestrial-size, habitable zone candidates. This catalog
was created using a tool called the Robovetter which automatically vets the
DR25 Threshold Crossing Events (TCEs, Twicken et al. 2016). The Robovetter also
vetted simulated data sets and measured how well it was able to separate TCEs
caused by noise from those caused by low signal-to-noise transits. We discusses
the Robovetter and the metrics it uses to sort TCEs. For orbital periods less
than 100 days the Robovetter completeness (the fraction of simulated transits
that are determined to be planet candidates) across all observed stars is
greater than 85%. For the same period range, the catalog reliability (the
fraction of candidates that are not due to instrumental or stellar noise) is
greater than 98%. However, for low signal-to-noise candidates between 200 and
500 days around FGK dwarf stars, the Robovetter is 76.7% complete and the
catalog is 50.5% reliable. The KOI catalog, the transit fits and all of the
simulated data used to characterize this catalog are available at the NASA
Exoplanet Archive.


