Multi-photon signal in supersymmetry comprising non-pointing photon(s)
  at the LHC

  We study a distinct supersymmetric signal of multi-photons in association
with jets and missing transverse energy. At least one of these photons has the
origin in displaced vertex, thus delayed and non-pointing. We consider a
supersymmetric scenario in which the gravitino is the lightest supersymmetric
particle (LSP) (with a mass $\sim 1~{keV}$) and the lightest neutralino is the
next-to-lightest supersymmetric particle (NLSP). The NLSP decays dominantly
into a photon and a gravitino within the detector with a decay length ranging
from $c\tau_{\tilde{\chi}}\sim$ 50-100 cm. In addition, we assume that the
second lightest neutralino and the lightest neutralino are nearly degenerate
and this leads to a prompt radiative decay of the next-to-lightest neutralino
into a photon and a lightest neutralino with a large branching ratio. Such
degenerate neutralinos can be realised in various representations of the
$SU(5)$, $SO(10)$, and $E(6)$ Grand Unified Theories (GUTs). The non-pointing
photons can be reconstructed at the electromagnetic calorimeter of the ATLAS
inner-detector, which have been designed with good timing and directional
resolution. We find that with a centre-of-mass energy $E_{cm}=14 ~{TeV}$ at an
integrated luminosity of 100 $fb^{-1}$ one may see evidence of hundreds of
tri-photon events and a few four-photons events at the LHC, in addition to
several thousands di-photon events. We also predict the event rates even at the
early phase of LHC run.


Minimization of Handoff Failure Probability for Next-Generation Wireless
  Systems

  During the past few years, advances in mobile communication theory have
enabled the development and deployment of different wireless technologies,
complementary to each other. Hence, their integration can realize a unified
wireless system that has the best features of the individual networks.
Next-Generation Wireless Systems (NGWS) integrate different wireless systems,
each of which is optimized for some specific services and coverage area to
provide ubiquitous communications to the mobile users. In this paper, we
propose to enhance the handoff performance of mobile IP in wireless IP networks
by reducing the false handoff probability in the NGWS handoff management
protocol. Based on the information of false handoff probability, we analyze its
effect on mobile speed and handoff signaling delay.


Human-in-the-Loop SLAM

  Building large-scale, globally consistent maps is a challenging problem, made
more difficult in environments with limited access, sparse features, or when
using data collected by novice users. For such scenarios, where
state-of-the-art mapping algorithms produce globally inconsistent maps, we
introduce a systematic approach to incorporating sparse human corrections,
which we term Human-in-the-Loop Simultaneous Localization and Mapping
(HitL-SLAM). Given an initial factor graph for pose graph SLAM, HitL-SLAM
accepts approximate, potentially erroneous, and rank-deficient human input,
infers the intended correction via expectation maximization (EM),
back-propagates the extracted corrections over the pose graph, and finally
jointly optimizes the factor graph including the human inputs as human
correction factor terms, to yield globally consistent large-scale maps. We thus
contribute an EM formulation for inferring potentially rank-deficient human
corrections to mapping, and human correction factor extensions to the factor
graphs for pose graph SLAM that result in a principled approach to joint
optimization of the pose graph while simultaneously accounting for multiple
forms of human correction. We present empirical results showing the
effectiveness of HitL-SLAM at generating globally accurate and consistent maps
even when given poor initial estimates of the map.


Interactive Robot Transition Repair With SMT

  Complex robot behaviors are often structured as state machines, where states
encapsulate actions and a transition function switches between states. Since
transitions depend on physical parameters, when the environment changes, a
roboticist has to painstakingly readjust the parameters to work in the new
environment. We present interactive SMT-based Robot Transition Repair (SRTR):
instead of manually adjusting parameters, we ask the roboticist to identify a
few instances where the robot is in a wrong state and what the right state
should be. A lightweight automated analysis of the transition function's source
code then 1) identifies adjustable parameters, 2) converts the transition
function into a system of logical constraints, and 3) formulates the
constraints and user-supplied corrections as MaxSMT problem that yields new
parameter values. Our evaluation shows that SRTR is effective on real robots
and in simulation. We show that SRTR finds new parameters 1) quickly, 2) with
only a few corrections, and 3) that the parameters generalize to new scenarios.
We also show that a simple state machine corrected by SRTR can out-perform a
more complex, expert-tuned state machine in the real world.


Localization under Topological Uncertainty for Lane Identification of
  Autonomous Vehicles

  Autonomous vehicles (AVs) require accurate metric and topological location
estimates for safe, effective navigation and decision-making. Although many
high-definition (HD) roadmaps exist, they are not always accurate since public
roads are dynamic, shaped unpredictably by both human activity and nature.
Thus, AVs must be able to handle situations in which the topology specified by
the map does not agree with reality. We present the Variable Structure Multiple
Hidden Markov Model (VSM-HMM) as a framework for localizing in the presence of
topological uncertainty, and demonstrate its effectiveness on an AV where lane
membership is modeled as a topological localization process. VSM-HMMs use a
dynamic set of HMMs to simultaneously reason about location within a set of
most likely current topologies and therefore may also be applied to topological
structure estimation as well as AV lane estimation. In addition, we present an
extension to the Earth Mover's Distance which allows uncertainty to be taken
into account when computing the distance between belief distributions on
simplices of arbitrary relative sizes.


iVOA: Introspective Vision for Obstacle Avoidance

  Vision, as an inexpensive yet information rich sensor, is commonly used for
perception on autonomous mobile robots. Unfortunately, accurate vision-based
perception requires a number of assumptions about the environment to hold --
some examples of such assumptions, depending on the perception algorithm at
hand, include purely lambertian surfaces, texture-rich scenes, absence of
aliasing features, and refractive surfaces. In this paper, we present an
approach for introspective vision for obstacle avoidance (iVOA) -- by
leveraging a supervisory sensor that is occasionally available, we detect
failures of stereo vision-based perception from divergence in plans generated
by vision and the supervisory sensor. By projecting the 3D coordinates where
the plans agree and disagree onto the images used for vision-based perception,
iVOA generates a training set of reliable and unreliable image patches for
perception. We then use this training dataset to learn a model of which image
patches are likely to cause failures of the vision-based perception algorithm.
Using this model, iVOA is then able to predict whether the relevant image
patches in the observed images are likely to cause failures due to vision (both
false positives and false negatives). We empirically demonstrate with extensive
real-world data from both indoor and outdoor environments, the ability of iVOA
to accurately predict the failures of two distinct vision algorithms.


Minimization of Handoff latency by co-ordinate evaluation method using
  GPS based map

  Handoff has become an essential criterion in mobile communication system,
specially in urban areas, owing to the limited coverage area of Access Points
(AP). Handover of calls between two Base Stations (BSs) is encountered
frequently and it is essentially required to minimize the delay of the process.
Many solutions attempting to improve this process have been proposed but only a
few use geo-location systems in the management of the handover. Here we propose
to minimize the handoff latency by minimizing the number of APs scanned by the
Mobile Node (MN) during each handoff procedure. We consider the whole
topographical area as a two dimensional plane. By GPS, we can note down the
co-ordinates of the MN at any instant. The average rate of change of its
latitudinal distance and longitudinal distance with a specific time period is
evaluated at the end of the given time period. With the knowledge of the given
parameter, it is possible to determine the latitude and longitude of the MN
after a particular instant of time. Hence, the direction of motion of the MN
can be determined, which in turns gives the AP towards which the MN is
headings. This reduces the number of APs to be scanned. Thus, on an overall
basis, the handoff latency can be reduced by almost half to one third of its
value.


A Real-Time Solver For Time-Optimal Control Of Omnidirectional Robots
  with Bounded Acceleration

  We are interested in the problem of time-optimal control of omnidirectional
robots with bounded acceleration (TOC-ORBA). While there exist approximate
solutions for such robots, and exact solutions with unbounded acceleration,
exact solvers to the TOC-ORBA problem have remained elusive until now. In this
paper, we present a real-time solver for true time-optimal control of
omnidirectional robots with bounded acceleration. We first derive the general
parameterized form of the solution to the TOC-ORBA problem by application of
Pontryagin's maximum principle. We then frame the boundary value problem of
TOC-ORBA as an optimization problem over the parametrized control space. To
overcome local minima and poor initial guesses to the optimization problem, we
introduce a two-stage optimal control solver (TSOCS): The first stage computes
an upper bound to the total time for the TOC-ORBA problem and holds the time
constant while optimizing the parameters of the trajectory to approach the
boundary value conditions. The second stage uses the parameters found by the
first stage, and relaxes the constraint on the total time to solve for the
parameters of the complete TOC-ORBA problem. We further implement TSOCS as a
closed loop controller to overcome actuation errors on real robots in
real-time. We empirically demonstrate the effectiveness of TSOCS in simulation
and on real robots, showing that 1) it runs in real time, generating solutions
in less than 0.5ms on average; 2) it generates faster trajectories compared to
an approximate solver; and 3) it is able to solve TOC-ORBA problems with
non-zero final velocities that were previously unsolvable in real-time.


X*: Anytime Multiagent Planning With Bounded Search

  Multi-agent planning in dynamic domains is a challenging problem: the size of
the configuration space increases exponentially in the number of agents, and
plans need to be re-evaluated periodically to account for moving obstacles.
However, we have two key insights that hold in several domains: 1) conflicts
between multi-agent plans often have geometrically local resolutions within a
small repair window, even if such local resolutions are not globally optimal;
and 2) the partial search tree for such local resolutions can then be
iteratively improved over successively larger windows to eventually compute the
global optimal plan. Building upon these two insights, we introduce a sparse,
anytime variant of the A* planner, which we call X* (Expanding A*). X* operates
by planning for each agent individually and forming local repair windows around
collisions, repairing agents within that window. If time allows, X* grows the
window and repeats. X* implements two novel techniques to reduce the
computational cost compared to joint A*: 1) it preserves the partial X* search
trees and priority queues between iterations of window growth; and 2) it defers
explicit joint state enumeration until necessary. By preserving the search
tree, X* significantly out-performs joint A* and a na\"ive window-growing A*
algorithm. By deferring explicit joint state enumeration, X* reduces the number
of priority queue operations by several orders of magnitude compared to a joint
A* planner. We present empirical results from several domains, showing that X*
outperforms existing state-of-the-art joint planners for sparse anytime
multi-agent planning with optimality convergence.


