Statistical Verification of Computational Rapport Model

  Rapport plays an important role during communication because it can help
people understand each other's feelings or ideas and leads to a smooth
communication. Computational rapport model has been proposed based on theory in
previous work. But there lacks solid verification. In this paper, we apply
structural equation model (SEM) to the theoretical model on both dyads of
friend and stranger. The results indicate some unfavorable paths. Based on the
results and more literature, we modify the original model to integrate more
nonverbal behaviors, including gaze and smile. Fit indices and other
examination show the goodness of our new models, which can give us more insight
into rapport management during conversation.


A New Theoretical Framework for Curiosity for Learning in Social
  Contexts

  Curiosity is a vital metacognitive skill in educational contexts. Yet, little
is known about how social factors influence curiosity in group work. We argue
that curiosity is evoked not only through individual, but also interpersonal
activities, and present what we believe to be the first theoretical framework
that articulates an integrated socio-cognitive account of curiosity based on
literature spanning psychology, learning sciences and group dynamics, along
with empirical observation of small-group science activity in an informal
learning environment. We make a bipartite distinction between individual and
interpersonal functions that contribute to curiosity, and multimodal behaviors
that fulfill these functions. We validate the proposed framework by leveraging
a longitudinal latent variable modeling approach. Findings confirm positive
predictive relationship of the latent variables of individual and interpersonal
functions on curiosity, with the interpersonal functions exercising a
comparatively stronger influence. Prominent behavioral realizations of these
functions are also discovered in a data-driven way. This framework is a step
towards designing learning technologies that can recognize and evoke curiosity
during learning in social contexts.


Leveraging Recurrent Neural Networks for Multimodal Recognition of
  Social Norm Violation in Dialog

  Social norms are shared rules that govern and facilitate social interaction.
Violating such social norms via teasing and insults may serve to upend power
imbalances or, on the contrary reinforce solidarity and rapport in
conversation, rapport which is highly situated and context-dependent. In this
work, we investigate the task of automatically identifying the phenomena of
social norm violation in discourse. Towards this goal, we leverage the power of
recurrent neural networks and multimodal information present in the
interaction, and propose a predictive model to recognize social norm violation.
Using long-term temporal and contextual information, our model achieves an F1
score of 0.705. Implications of our work regarding developing a social-aware
agent are discussed.


Curious Minds Wonder Alike: Studying Multimodal Behavioral Dynamics to
  Design Social Scaffolding of Curiosity

  Curiosity is the strong desire to learn or know more about something or
someone. Since learning is often a social endeavor, social dynamics in
collaborative learning may inevitably influence curiosity. There is a scarcity
of research, however, focusing on how curiosity can be evoked in group learning
contexts. Inspired by a recently proposed theoretical framework that
articulates an integrated socio-cognitive infrastructure of curiosity, in this
work, we use data-driven approaches to identify fine-grained social scaffolding
of curiosity in child-child interaction, and propose how they can be used to
elicit and maintain curiosity in technology-enhanced learning environments. For
example, we discovered sequential patterns of multimodal behaviors across group
members and we describe those that maximize an individual's utility, or
likelihood, of demonstrating curiosity during open-ended problem-solving in
group work. We also discovered, and describe here, behaviors that directly or
in a mediated manner cause curiosity related conversational behaviors in the
interaction, with twice as many interpersonal causal influences compared to
intrapersonal ones. We explain how these findings form a solid foundation for
developing curiosity-increasing learning technologies or even assisting a human
coach to induce curiosity among learners.


