Sensor-Type Classification in Buildings

  Many sensors/meters are deployed in commercial buildings to monitor and
optimize their performance. However, because sensor metadata is inconsistent
across buildings, software-based solutions are tightly coupled to the sensor
metadata conventions (i.e. schemas and naming) for each building. Running the
same software across buildings requires significant integration effort.
  Metadata normalization is critical for scaling the deployment process and
allows us to decouple building-specific conventions from the code written for
building applications. It also allows us to deal with missing metadata. One
important aspect of normalization is to differentiate sensors by the typeof
phenomena being observed. In this paper, we propose a general, simple, yet
effective classification scheme to differentiate sensors in buildings by type.
We perform ensemble learning on data collected from over 2000 sensor streams in
two buildings. Our approach is able to achieve more than 92% accuracy for
classification within buildings and more than 82% accuracy for across
buildings. We also introduce a method for identifying potential misclassified
streams. This is important because it allows us to identify opportunities to
attain more input from experts -- input that could help improve classification
accuracy when ground truth is unavailable. We show that by adjusting a
threshold value we are able to identify at least 30% of the misclassified
instances.


How good is good enough? Re-evaluating the bar for energy disaggregation

  Since the early 1980s, the research community has developed ever more
sophisticated algorithms for the problem of energy disaggregation, but despite
decades of research, there is still a dearth of applications with demonstrated
value. In this work, we explore a question that is highly pertinent to this
research community: how good does energy disaggregation need to be in order to
infer characteristics of a household? We present novel techniques that use
unsupervised energy disaggregation to predict both household occupancy and
static properties of the household such as size of the home and number of
occupants. Results show that basic disaggregation approaches performs up to 30%
better at occupancy estimation than using aggregate power data alone, and are
up to 10% better at estimating static household characteristics. These results
show that even rudimentary energy disaggregation techniques are sufficient for
improved inference of household characteristics. To conclude, we re-evaluate
the bar set by the community for energy disaggregation accuracy and try to
answer the question "how good is good enough?"


Poster Abstract: Bits and Watts: Improving energy disaggregation
  performance using power line communication modems

  Non-intrusive load monitoring (NILM) or energy disaggregation, aims to
disaggregate a household's electricity consumption into constituent appliances.
More than three decades of work in NILM has resulted in the development of
several novel algorithmic approaches. However, despite these advancements, two
core challenges still exist: i) disaggregating low power consumption appliances
and ii) distinguishing between multiple instances of similar appliances. These
challenges are becoming increasingly important due to an increasing number of
appliances and increased usage of electronics in homes. Previous approaches
have attempted to solve these problems using expensive hardware involving high
sampling rates better suited to laboratory settings, or using additional number
of sensors, limiting the ease of deployment. In this work, we explore using
commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) power line communication (PLC) modems as an
inexpensive and easy to deploy alternative solution to these problems. We use
the reduction in bandwidth between two PLC modems, caused due to the change in
PLC modulation scheme when different appliances are operated as a signature for
an appliance. Since the noise generated in the powerline is dependent both on
type and location of an appliance, we believe that our technique based on PLC
modems can be a promising addition for solving NILM.


Neighbourhood NILM: A Big-data Approach to Household Energy
  Disaggregation

  In this paper, we investigate whether "big-data" is more valuable than
"precise" data for the problem of energy disaggregation: the process of
breaking down aggregate energy usage on a per-appliance basis. Existing
techniques for disaggregation rely on energy metering at a resolution of 1
minute or higher, but most power meters today only provide a reading once per
month, and at most once every 15 minutes. In this paper, we propose a new
technique called Neighbourhood NILM that leverages data from 'neighbouring'
homes to disaggregate energy given only a single energy reading per month. The
key intuition behind our approach is that 'similar' homes have 'similar' energy
consumption on a per-appliance basis. Neighbourhood NILM matches every home
with a set of 'neighbours' that have direct submetering infrastructure, i.e.
power meters on individual circuits or loads. Many such homes already exist.
Then, it estimates the appliance-level energy consumption of the target home to
be the average of its K neighbours. We evaluate this approach using 25 homes
and results show that our approach gives comparable or better disaggregation in
comparison to state-of-the-art accuracy reported in the literature that depend
on manual model training, high frequency power metering, or both. Results show
that Neighbourhood NILM can achieve 83% and 79% accuracy disaggregating fridge
and heating/cooling loads, compared to 74% and 73% for a technique called FHMM.
Furthermore, it achieves up to 64% accuracy on washing machine, dryer,
dishwasher, and lighting loads, which is higher than previously reported
results. Many existing techniques are not able to disaggregate these loads at
all. These results indicate a potentially substantial advantage to installing
submetering infrastructure in a select few homes rather than installing new
high-frequency smart metering infrastructure in all homes.


