Reasoning about soft constraints and conditional preferences: complexity
  results and approximation techniques

  Many real life optimization problems contain both hard and soft constraints,
as well as qualitative conditional preferences. However, there is no single
formalism to specify all three kinds of information. We therefore propose a
framework, based on both CP-nets and soft constraints, that handles both hard
and soft constraints as well as conditional preferences efficiently and
uniformly. We study the complexity of testing the consistency of preference
statements, and show how soft constraints can faithfully approximate the
semantics of conditional preference statements whilst improving the
computational complexity


Restricted Manipulation in Iterative Voting: Convergence and Condorcet
  Efficiency

  In collective decision making, where a voting rule is used to take a
collective decision among a group of agents, manipulation by one or more agents
is usually considered negative behavior to be avoided, or at least to be made
computationally difficult for the agents to perform. However, there are
scenarios in which a restricted form of manipulation can instead be beneficial.
In this paper we consider the iterative version of several voting rules, where
at each step one agent is allowed to manipulate by modifying his ballot
according to a set of restricted manipulation moves which are computationally
easy and require little information to be performed. We prove convergence of
iterative voting rules when restricted manipulation is allowed, and we present
experiments showing that most iterative voting rules have a higher Condorcet
efficiency than their non-iterative version.


Comparing the notions of optimality in CP-nets, strategic games and soft
  constraints

  The notion of optimality naturally arises in many areas of applied
mathematics and computer science concerned with decision making. Here we
consider this notion in the context of three formalisms used for different
purposes in reasoning about multi-agent systems: strategic games, CP-nets, and
soft constraints. To relate the notions of optimality in these formalisms we
introduce a natural qualitative modification of the notion of a strategic game.
We show then that the optimal outcomes of a CP-net are exactly the Nash
equilibria of such games. This allows us to use the techniques of game theory
to search for optimal outcomes of CP-nets and vice-versa, to use techniques
developed for CP-nets to search for Nash equilibria of the considered games.
Then, we relate the notion of optimality used in the area of soft constraints
to that used in a generalization of strategic games, called graphical games. In
particular we prove that for a natural class of soft constraints that includes
weighted constraints every optimal solution is both a Nash equilibrium and
Pareto efficient joint strategy. For a natural mapping in the other direction
we show that Pareto efficient joint strategies coincide with the optimal
solutions of soft constraints.


Local search for stable marriage problems with ties and incomplete lists

  The stable marriage problem has a wide variety of practical applications,
ranging from matching resident doctors to hospitals, to matching students to
schools, or more generally to any two-sided market. We consider a useful
variation of the stable marriage problem, where the men and women express their
preferences using a preference list with ties over a subset of the members of
the other sex. Matchings are permitted only with people who appear in these
preference lists. In this setting, we study the problem of finding a stable
matching that marries as many people as possible. Stability is an envy-free
notion: no man and woman who are not married to each other would both prefer
each other to their partners or to being single. This problem is NP-hard. We
tackle this problem using local search, exploiting properties of the problem to
reduce the size of the neighborhood and to make local moves efficiently.
Experimental results show that this approach is able to solve large problems,
quickly returning stable matchings of large and often optimal size.


