Toward Trusted Sharing of Network Packet Traces Using Anonymization:
  Single-Field Privacy/Analysis Tradeoffs

  Network data needs to be shared for distributed security analysis.
Anonymization of network data for sharing sets up a fundamental tradeoff
between privacy protection versus security analysis capability. This
privacy/analysis tradeoff has been acknowledged by many researchers but this is
the first paper to provide empirical measurements to characterize the
privacy/analysis tradeoff for an enterprise dataset. Specifically we perform
anonymization options on single-fields within network packet traces and then
make measurements using intrusion detection system alarms as a proxy for
security analysis capability. Our results show: (1) two fields have a zero sum
tradeoff (more privacy lessens security analysis and vice versa) and (2) eight
fields have a more complex tradeoff (that is not zero sum) in which both
privacy and analysis can both be simultaneously accomplished.


Adaptive Image Stream Classification via Convolutional Neural Network
  with Intrinsic Similarity Metrics

  When performing data classification over a stream of continuously occurring
instances, a key challenge is to develop an open-world classifier that
anticipates instances from an unknown class. Studies addressing this problem,
typically called novel class detection, have considered classification methods
that reactively adapt to such changes along the stream. Importantly, they rely
on the property of cohesion and separation among instances in feature space.
Instances belonging to the same class are assumed to be closer to each other
(cohesion) than those belonging to different classes (separation).
Unfortunately, this assumption may not have large support when dealing with
high dimensional data such as images. In this paper, we address this key
challenge by proposing a semisupervised multi-task learning framework called
CSIM which aims to intrinsically search for a latent space suitable for
detecting labels of instances from both known and unknown classes.
Particularly, we utilize a convolution neural network layer that aids in the
learning of a latent feature space suitable for novel class detection. We
empirically measure the performance of CSIM over multiple realworld image
datasets and demonstrate its superiority by comparing its performance with
existing semi-supervised methods.


Cause Identification from Aviation Safety Incident Reports via Weakly
  Supervised Semantic Lexicon Construction

  The Aviation Safety Reporting System collects voluntarily submitted reports
on aviation safety incidents to facilitate research work aiming to reduce such
incidents. To effectively reduce these incidents, it is vital to accurately
identify why these incidents occurred. More precisely, given a set of possible
causes, or shaping factors, this task of cause identification involves
identifying all and only those shaping factors that are responsible for the
incidents described in a report. We investigate two approaches to cause
identification. Both approaches exploit information provided by a semantic
lexicon, which is automatically constructed via Thelen and Riloffs Basilisk
framework augmented with our linguistic and algorithmic modifications. The
first approach labels a report using a simple heuristic, which looks for the
words and phrases acquired during the semantic lexicon learning process in the
report. The second approach recasts cause identification as a text
classification problem, employing supervised and transductive text
classification algorithms to learn models from incident reports labeled with
shaping factors and using the models to label unseen reports. Our experiments
show that both the heuristic-based approach and the learning-based approach
(when given sufficient training data) outperform the baseline system
significantly.


Co-Representation Learning For Classification and Novel Class Detection
  via Deep Networks

  One of the key challenges of performing label prediction over a data stream
concerns with the emergence of instances belonging to unobserved class labels
over time. Previously, this problem has been addressed by detecting such
instances and using them for appropriate classifier adaptation. The fundamental
aspect of a novel-class detection strategy relies on the ability of comparison
among observed instances to discriminate them into known and unknown classes.
Therefore, studies in the past have proposed various metrics suitable for
comparison over the observed feature space. Unfortunately, these similarity
measures fail to reliably identify distinct regions in observed feature spaces
useful for class discrimination and novel-class detection, especially in
streams containing high-dimensional data instances such as images and texts. In
this paper, we address this key challenge by proposing a semi-supervised
multi-task learning framework called \sysname{} which aims to intrinsically
search for a latent space suitable for detecting labels of instances from both
known and unknown classes. We empirically measure the performance of \sysname{}
over multiple real-world image and text datasets and demonstrate its
superiority by comparing its performance with existing semi-supervised methods.


