Random DFAs are Efficiently PAC Learnable

  This paper has been withdrawn due to an error found by Dana Angluin and Lev
Reyzin.


Contextual Bandit Algorithms with Supervised Learning Guarantees

  We address the problem of learning in an online, bandit setting where the
learner must repeatedly select among $K$ actions, but only receives partial
feedback based on its choices. We establish two new facts: First, using a new
algorithm called Exp4.P, we show that it is possible to compete with the best
in a set of $N$ experts with probability $1-\delta$ while incurring regret at
most $O(\sqrt{KT\ln(N/\delta)})$ over $T$ time steps. The new algorithm is
tested empirically in a large-scale, real-world dataset. Second, we give a new
algorithm called VE that competes with a possibly infinite set of policies of
VC-dimension $d$ while incurring regret at most $O(\sqrt{T(d\ln(T) + \ln
(1/\delta))})$ with probability $1-\delta$. These guarantees improve on those
of all previous algorithms, whether in a stochastic or adversarial environment,
and bring us closer to providing supervised learning type guarantees for the
contextual bandit setting.


On the Resilience of Bipartite Networks

  Motivated by problems modeling the spread of infections in networks, in this
paper we explore which bipartite graphs are most resilient to widespread
infections under various parameter settings. Namely, we study bipartite
networks with a requirement of a minimum degree $d$ on one side under an
independent infection, independent transmission model. We completely
characterize the optimal graphs in the case $d=1$, which already produces
non-trivial behavior, and we give extremal results for the more general cases.
We show that in the case $d=2$, surprisingly, the optimally resilient set of
graphs includes a graph that is not one of the two "extremes" found in the case
$d=1$.
  Then, we briefly examine the case where we force a connectivity requirement
instead of a one-sided degree requirement and again, we find that the set of
the most resilient graphs contains more than the two "extremes." We also show
that determining the subgraph of an arbitrary bipartite graph most resilient to
infection is NP-hard for any one-sided minimal degree $d \ge 1$.


Network Construction with Ordered Constraints

  In this paper, we study the problem of constructing a network by observing
ordered connectivity constraints, which we define herein. These ordered
constraints are made to capture realistic properties of real-world problems
that are not reflected in previous, more general models. We give hardness of
approximation results and nearly-matching upper bounds for the offline problem,
and we study the online problem in both general graphs and restricted
sub-classes. In the online problem, for general graphs, we give exponentially
better upper bounds than exist for algorithms for general connectivity
problems. For the restricted classes of stars and paths we are able to find
algorithms with optimal competitive ratios, the latter of which involve
analysis using a potential function defined over pq-trees.


Crowdsourced PAC Learning under Classification Noise

  In this paper, we analyze PAC learnability from labels produced by
crowdsourcing. In our setting, unlabeled examples are drawn from a distribution
and labels are crowdsourced from workers who operate under classification
noise, each with their own noise parameter. We develop an end-to-end
crowdsourced PAC learning algorithm that takes unlabeled data points as input
and outputs a trained classifier. Our three-step algorithm incorporates
majority voting, pure-exploration bandits, and noisy-PAC learning. We prove
several guarantees on the number of tasks labeled by workers for PAC learning
in this setting and show that our algorithm improves upon the baseline by
reducing the total number of tasks given to workers. We demonstrate the
robustness of our algorithm by exploring its application to additional
realistic crowdsourcing settings.


On Coloring Resilient Graphs

  We introduce a new notion of resilience for constraint satisfaction problems,
with the goal of more precisely determining the boundary between NP-hardness
and the existence of efficient algorithms for resilient instances. In
particular, we study $r$-resiliently $k$-colorable graphs, which are those
$k$-colorable graphs that remain $k$-colorable even after the addition of any
$r$ new edges. We prove lower bounds on the NP-hardness of coloring resiliently
colorable graphs, and provide an algorithm that colors sufficiently resilient
graphs. We also analyze the corresponding notion of resilience for $k$-SAT.
This notion of resilience suggests an array of open questions for graph
coloring and other combinatorial problems.


Data Stability in Clustering: A Closer Look

  We consider the model introduced by Bilu and Linial (2010), who study
problems for which the optimal clustering does not change when distances are
perturbed. They show that even when a problem is NP-hard, it is sometimes
possible to obtain efficient algorithms for instances resilient to certain
multiplicative perturbations, e.g. on the order of $O(\sqrt{n})$ for max-cut
clustering. Awasthi et al. (2010) consider center-based objectives, and Balcan
and Liang (2011) analyze the $k$-median and min-sum objectives, giving
efficient algorithms for instances resilient to certain constant multiplicative
perturbations.
  Here, we are motivated by the question of to what extent these assumptions
can be relaxed while allowing for efficient algorithms. We show there is little
room to improve these results by giving NP-hardness lower bounds for both the
$k$-median and min-sum objectives. On the other hand, we show that constant
multiplicative resilience parameters can be so strong as to make the clustering
problem trivial, leaving only a narrow range of resilience parameters for which
clustering is interesting. We also consider a model of additive perturbations
and give a correspondence between additive and multiplicative notions of
stability. Our results provide a close examination of the consequences of
assuming stability in data.


Anti-Coordination Games and Stable Graph Colorings

  Motivated by understanding non-strict and strict pure strategy equilibria in
network anti-coordination games, we define notions of stable and, respectively,
strictly stable colorings in graphs. We characterize the cases when such
colorings exist and when the decision problem is NP-hard. These correspond to
finding pure strategy equilibria in the anti-coordination games, whose price of
anarchy we also analyze. We further consider the directed case, a
generalization that captures both coordination and anti-coordination. We prove
the decision problem for non-strict equilibria in directed graphs is NP-hard.
Our notions also have multiple connections to other combinatorial questions,
and our results resolve some open problems in these areas, most notably the
complexity of the strictly unfriendly partition problem.


On the Computational Complexity of MapReduce

  In this paper we study MapReduce computations from a complexity-theoretic
perspective. First, we formulate a uniform version of the MRC model of Karloff
et al. (2010). We then show that the class of regular languages, and moreover
all of sublogarithmic space, lies in constant round MRC. This result also
applies to the MPC model of Andoni et al. (2014). In addition, we prove that,
conditioned on a variant of the Exponential Time Hypothesis, there are strict
hierarchies within MRC so that increasing the number of rounds or the amount of
time per processor increases the power of MRC. To the best of our knowledge we
are the first to approach the MapReduce model with complexity-theoretic
techniques, and our work lays the foundation for further analysis relating
MapReduce to established complexity classes.


Efficient Optimal Learning for Contextual Bandits

  We address the problem of learning in an online setting where the learner
repeatedly observes features, selects among a set of actions, and receives
reward for the action taken. We provide the first efficient algorithm with an
optimal regret. Our algorithm uses a cost sensitive classification learner as
an oracle and has a running time $\mathrm{polylog}(N)$, where $N$ is the number
of classification rules among which the oracle might choose. This is
exponentially faster than all previous algorithms that achieve optimal regret
in this setting. Our formulation also enables us to create an algorithm with
regret that is additive rather than multiplicative in feedback delay as in all
previous work.


A Simple Spectral Algorithm for Recovering Planted Partitions

  In this paper, we consider the planted partition model, in which $n = ks$
vertices of a random graph are partitioned into $k$ "clusters," each of size
$s$. Edges between vertices in the same cluster and different clusters are
included with constant probability $p$ and $q$, respectively (where $0 \le q <
p \le 1$). We give an efficient algorithm that, with high probability, recovers
the clusters as long as the cluster sizes are are least $\Omega(\sqrt{n})$.
Informally, our algorithm constructs the projection operator onto the dominant
$k$-dimensional eigenspace of the graph's adjacency matrix and uses it to
recover one cluster at a time. To our knowledge, our algorithm is the first
purely spectral algorithm which runs in polynomial time and works even when $s
= \Theta(\sqrt n)$, though there have been several non-spectral algorithms
which accomplish this. Our algorithm is also among the simplest of these
spectral algorithms, and its proof of correctness illustrates the usefulness of
the Cauchy integral formula in this domain.


Network installation and recovery: approximation lower bounds and faster
  exact formulations

  We study the Neighbor Aided Network Installation Problem (NANIP) introduced
previously which asks for a minimal cost ordering of the vertices of a graph,
where the cost of visiting a node is a function of the number of neighbors that
have already been visited. This problem has applications in resource management
and disaster recovery. In this paper we analyze the computational hardness of
NANIP. In particular we show that this problem is NP-hard even when restricted
to convex decreasing cost functions, give a linear approximation lower bound
for the greedy algorithm, and prove a general sub-constant approximation lower
bound. Then we give a new integer programming formulation of NANIP and
empirically observe its speedup over the original integer program.


Sampling Without Compromising Accuracy in Adaptive Data Analysis

  In this work, we study how to use sampling to speed up mechanisms for
answering adaptive queries into datasets without reducing the accuracy of those
mechanisms. In particular, we describe a mechanism that provides a polynomial
speed-up per query over previous mechanisms, without needing to increase the
total amount of data required to maintain the same generalization error as
before. We prove that this speed-up holds for arbitrary statistical queries. We
also provide an even faster method for achieving statistically-meaningful
responses wherein the mechanism is only allowed to see a constant number of
samples from the data per query. Finally, we show that our general results
yield a simple, fast, and unified approach for adaptively optimizing convex and
strongly convex functions over a dataset.


Statistical Algorithms and a Lower Bound for Detecting Planted Clique

  We introduce a framework for proving lower bounds on computational problems
over distributions against algorithms that can be implemented using access to a
statistical query oracle. For such algorithms, access to the input distribution
is limited to obtaining an estimate of the expectation of any given function on
a sample drawn randomly from the input distribution, rather than directly
accessing samples. Most natural algorithms of interest in theory and in
practice, e.g., moments-based methods, local search, standard iterative methods
for convex optimization, MCMC and simulated annealing can be implemented in
this framework. Our framework is based on, and generalizes, the statistical
query model in learning theory (Kearns, 1998).
  Our main application is a nearly optimal lower bound on the complexity of any
statistical query algorithm for detecting planted bipartite clique
distributions (or planted dense subgraph distributions) when the planted clique
has size $O(n^{1/2-\delta})$ for any constant $\delta > 0$. The assumed
hardness of variants of these problems has been used to prove hardness of
several other problems and as a guarantee for security in cryptographic
applications. Our lower bounds provide concrete evidence of hardness, thus
supporting these assumptions.


