Spherical coverage verification

  We consider the problem of covering hypersphere by a set of spherical
hypercaps. This sort of problem has numerous practical applications such as
error correcting codes and reverse k-nearest neighbor problem. Using the
reduction of non degenerated concave quadratic programming (QP) problem, we
demonstrate that spherical coverage verification is NP hard. We propose a
recursive algorithm based on reducing the problem to several lower dimension
subproblems. We test the performance of the proposed algorithm on a number of
generated constellations. We demonstrate that the proposed algorithm, in spite
of its exponential worst-case complexity, is applicable in practice. In
contrast, our results indicate that spherical coverage verification using QP
solvers that utilize heuristics, due to numerical instability, may produce
false positives.


Multidimensional Scaling on Multiple Input Distance Matrices

  Multidimensional Scaling (MDS) is a classic technique that seeks vectorial
representations for data points, given the pairwise distances between them.
However, in recent years, data are usually collected from diverse sources or
have multiple heterogeneous representations. How to do multidimensional scaling
on multiple input distance matrices is still unsolved to our best knowledge. In
this paper, we first define this new task formally. Then, we propose a new
algorithm called Multi-View Multidimensional Scaling (MVMDS) by considering
each input distance matrix as one view. Our algorithm is able to learn the
weights of views (i.e., distance matrices) automatically by exploring the
consensus information and complementary nature of views. Experimental results
on synthetic as well as real datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of MVMDS.
We hope that our work encourages a wider consideration in many domains where
MDS is needed.


Advancing Tabu and Restart in Local Search for Maximum Weight Cliques

  The tabu and restart are two fundamental strategies for local search. In this
paper, we improve the local search algorithms for solving the Maximum Weight
Clique (MWC) problem by introducing new tabu and restart strategies. Both the
tabu and restart strategies proposed are based on the notion of a local search
scenario, which involves not only a candidate solution but also the tabu status
and unlocking relationship. Compared to the strategy of configuration checking,
our tabu mechanism discourages forming a cycle of unlocking operations. Our new
restart strategy is based on the re-occurrence of a local search scenario
instead of that of a candidate solution. Experimental results show that the
resulting MWC solver outperforms several state-of-the-art solvers on the
DIMACS, BHOSLIB, and two benchmarks from practical applications.


Scene Parsing via Dense Recurrent Neural Networks with Attentional
  Selection

  Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) have shown the ability to improve scene
parsing through capturing long-range dependencies among image units. In this
paper, we propose dense RNNs for scene labeling by exploring various long-range
semantic dependencies among image units. Different from existing RNN based
approaches, our dense RNNs are able to capture richer contextual dependencies
for each image unit by enabling immediate connections between each pair of
image units, which significantly enhances their discriminative power. Besides,
to select relevant dependencies and meanwhile to restrain irrelevant ones for
each unit from dense connections, we introduce an attention model into dense
RNNs. The attention model allows automatically assigning more importance to
helpful dependencies while less weight to unconcerned dependencies. Integrating
with convolutional neural networks (CNNs), we develop an end-to-end scene
labeling system. Extensive experiments on three large-scale benchmarks
demonstrate that the proposed approach can improve the baselines by large
margins and outperform other state-of-the-art algorithms.


Revealing Cluster Structure of Graph by Path Following Replicator
  Dynamic

  In this paper, we propose a path following replicator dynamic, and
investigate its potentials in uncovering the underlying cluster structure of a
graph. The proposed dynamic is a generalization of the discrete replicator
dynamic. The replicator dynamic has been successfully used to extract dense
clusters of graphs; however, it is often sensitive to the degree distribution
of a graph, and usually biased by vertices with large degrees, thus may fail to
detect the densest cluster. To overcome this problem, we introduce a dynamic
parameter, called path parameter, into the evolution process. The path
parameter can be interpreted as the maximal possible probability of a current
cluster containing a vertex, and it monotonically increases as evolution
process proceeds. By limiting the maximal probability, the phenomenon of some
vertices dominating the early stage of evolution process is suppressed, thus
making evolution process more robust. To solve the optimization problem with a
fixed path parameter, we propose an efficient fixed point algorithm. The time
complexity of the path following replicator dynamic is only linear in the
number of edges of a graph, thus it can analyze graphs with millions of
vertices and tens of millions of edges on a common PC in a few minutes.
Besides, it can be naturally generalized to hypergraph and graph with edges of
different orders. We apply it to four important problems: maximum clique
problem, densest k-subgraph problem, structure fitting, and discovery of
high-density regions. The extensive experimental results clearly demonstrate
its advantages, in terms of robustness, scalability and flexility.


GIFT: A Real-time and Scalable 3D Shape Search Engine

  Projective analysis is an important solution for 3D shape retrieval, since
human visual perceptions of 3D shapes rely on various 2D observations from
different view points. Although multiple informative and discriminative views
are utilized, most projection-based retrieval systems suffer from heavy
computational cost, thus cannot satisfy the basic requirement of scalability
for search engines. In this paper, we present a real-time 3D shape search
engine based on the projective images of 3D shapes. The real-time property of
our search engine results from the following aspects: (1) efficient projection
and view feature extraction using GPU acceleration; (2) the first inverted
file, referred as F-IF, is utilized to speed up the procedure of multi-view
matching; (3) the second inverted file (S-IF), which captures a local
distribution of 3D shapes in the feature manifold, is adopted for efficient
context-based re-ranking. As a result, for each query the retrieval task can be
finished within one second despite the necessary cost of IO overhead. We name
the proposed 3D shape search engine, which combines GPU acceleration and
Inverted File Twice, as GIFT. Besides its high efficiency, GIFT also
outperforms the state-of-the-art methods significantly in retrieval accuracy on
various shape benchmarks and competitions.


