Learning Hidden Markov Models for Regression using Path Aggregation

  We consider the task of learning mappings from sequential data to real-valued
responses. We present and evaluate an approach to learning a type of hidden
Markov model (HMM) for regression. The learning process involves inferring the
structure and parameters of a conventional HMM, while simultaneously learning a
regression model that maps features that characterize paths through the model
to continuous responses. Our results, in both synthetic and biological domains,
demonstrate the value of jointly learning the two components of our approach.


Understanding Learned Models by Identifying Important Features at the
  Right Resolution

  In many application domains, it is important to characterize how complex
learned models make their decisions across the distribution of instances. One
way to do this is to identify the features and interactions among them that
contribute to a model's predictive accuracy. We present a model-agnostic
approach to this task that makes the following specific contributions. Our
approach (i) tests feature groups, in addition to base features, and tries to
determine the level of resolution at which important features can be
determined, (ii) uses hypothesis testing to rigorously assess the effect of
each feature on the model's loss, (iii) employs a hierarchical approach to
control the false discovery rate when testing feature groups and individual
base features for importance, and (iv) uses hypothesis testing to identify
important interactions among features and feature groups. We evaluate our
approach by analyzing random forest and LSTM neural network models learned in
two challenging biomedical applications.


CASTER - a concept for a Black Hole Finder Probe based on the use of new
  scintillator technologies

  The primary scientific mission of the Black Hole Finder Probe (BHFP), part of
the NASA Beyond Einstein program, is to survey the local Universe for black
holes over a wide range of mass and accretion rate. One approach to such a
survey is a hard X-ray coded-aperture imaging mission operating in the 10--600
keV energy band, a spectral range that is considered to be especially useful in
the detection of black hole sources. The development of new inorganic
scintillator materials provides improved performance (for example, with regards
to energy resolution and timing) that is well suited to the BHFP science
requirements. Detection planes formed with these materials coupled with a new
generation of readout devices represent a major advancement in the performance
capabilities of scintillator-based gamma cameras. Here, we discuss the Coded
Aperture Survey Telescope for Energetic Radiation (CASTER), a concept that
represents a BHFP based on the use of the latest scintillator technology.


Solar System Ice Giants: Exoplanets in our Backyard

  Future remote sensing of exoplanets will be enhanced by a thorough
investigation of our solar system Ice Giants (Neptune-size planets). What can
the configuration of the magnetic field tell us (remotely) about the interior,
and what implications does that field have for the structure of the
magnetosphere; energy input into the atmosphere, and surface geophysics (for
example surface weathering of satellites that might harbour sub-surface
oceans). How can monitoring of auroral emission help inform future remote
observations of emission from exoplanets? Our Solar System provides the only
laboratory in which we can perform in-situ experiments to understand exoplanet
formation, dynamos, systems and magnetospheres.


