Inflations of Geometric Grid Classes: Three Case Studies

  We enumerate three specific permutation classes defined by two forbidden
patterns of length four. The techniques involve inflations of geometric grid
classes.


Unsplittable classes of separable permutations

  A permutation class is splittable if it is contained in the merge of two of
its proper subclasses. We characterise the unsplittable subclasses of the class
of separable permutations both structurally and in terms of their bases.


Wilf-collapse in permutation classes having two basis elements of size
  three

  We consider permutation classes having two basis elements of size three and
one further basis element. We completely classify the possible enumeration
sequences of such classes and demonstrate that there are far fewer of them than
might be expected in principle.


Universal layered permutations

  We establish an exact formula for the length of the shortest permutation
containing all layered permutations of length $n$, proving a conjecture of
Gray.


Uniquely-Wilf classes

  Two permutations in a class are Wilf-equivalent if, for every size, $n$, the
number of permutations in the class of size $n$ containing each of them is the
same. Those infinite classes that have only one equivalence class in each size
for this relation are characterised provided either that they avoid at least
one permutation of size 3, or at least three permutations of size 4.


The enumeration of permutations avoiding 2143 and 4231

  We enumerate the pattern class Av(2143,4231) and completely describe its
permutations. The main tools are simple permutations and monotone grid classes.


Permutations Containing Many Patterns

  It is shown that the maximum number of patterns that can occur in a
permutation of length $n$ is asymptotically $2^n$. This significantly improves
a previous result of Coleman.


The fine structure of 321 avoiding permutations

  Bivariate generating functions for various subsets of the class of
permutations containing no descending sequence of length three or more are
determined. The notion of absolute indecomposability of a permutation is
introduced, and used in enumerating permutations which have a block structure
avoiding 321 and whose blocks also have such structure (recursively).
Generalizations of these results are discussed.


On the length of the longest subsequence avoiding an arbitrary pattern
  in a random permutation

  We consider the distribution of the length of the longest subsequence
avoiding a given pattern in a random permutation of length n. The well-studied
case of a longest increasing subsequence corresponds to avoiding the pattern
21. We show that there is some constant c such that the mean value of this
length is asymptotic to twice the square root of c times n and that the
distribution of the length is tightly concentrated around its mean. We observe
some apparent connections between c and the Stanley-Wilf limit of the class of
permutations avoiding the given pattern.


Young classes of permutations

  We characterise those classes of permutations having the property that for
every tableau shape either every permutation of that shape or no permutation of
that shape belongs to the class. The characterisation is in terms of the
dominance order for partitions (and their conjugates) and shows that for any
such class there is a constant k such that no permutation in the class can
contain both an increasing and a decreasing sequence of length k.


Crystallographic structure of ultrathin Fe films on Cu(100)

  We report bcc-like crystal structures in 2-4 ML Fe films grown on fcc Cu(100)
using scanning tunneling microscopy. The local bcc structure provides a
straightforward explanation for their frequently reported outstanding magnetic
properties, i.e., ferromagnetic ordering in all layers with a Curie temperature
above 300 K. The non-pseudomorphic structure, which becomes pseudomorphic above
4 ML film thickness is unexpected in terms of conventional rules of thin film
growth and stresses the importance of finite thickness effects in ferromagnetic
ultrathin films.


Sorting with a forklift

  A fork stack is a generalised stack which allows pushes and pops of several
items at a time. We consider the problem of determining which input streams can
be sorted using a single forkstack, or dually, which permutations of a fixed
input stream can be produced using a single forkstack. An algorithm is given to
solve the sorting problem and the minimal unsortable sequences are found. The
results are extended to fork stacks where there are bounds on how many items
can be pushed and popped at one time. In this context we also establish how to
enumerate the collection of sortable sequences.


The enumeration of simple permutations

  A simple permutation is one which maps no proper non-singleton interval onto
an interval. We consider the enumeration of simple permutations from several
aspects. Our results include a straightforward relationship between the
ordinary generating function for simple permutations and that for all
permutations, that the coefficients of this series are not P-recursive, an
asymptotic expansion for these coefficients, and a number of congruence
results.


Permutation Classes of Polynomial Growth

  A pattern class is a set of permutations closed under the formation of
subpermutations. Such classes can be characterised as those permutations not
involving a particular set of forbidden permutations. A simple collection of
necessary and sufficient conditions on sets of forbidden permutations which
ensure that the associated pattern class is of polynomial growth is determined.
A catalogue of all such sets of forbidden permutations having three or fewer
elements is provided together with bounds on the degrees of the associated
enumerating polynomials.


All-cavity electromagnetically induced transparency and optical
  switching: semiclassical theory

  The transmission of a probe field experiencing electromagnetically induced
transparency and optical switching in an atomic medium enclosed in an optical
cavity is investigated. Using a semiclassical input-output theory for the
interaction between an ensemble of four-level atoms and three optical cavity
fields coupled to the same spatial cavity mode, we derive the steady-state
transmission spectra of the probe field and discuss the dynamics of the
intracavity field buildup. The analytical and numerical results are in good
agreement with recent experiments with ion Coulomb crystals [M. Albert et al.,
Nature Photon. 5, 633 (2011)].


Quantum deformation of planar amplitudes

  In maximally supersymmetric four-dimensional gauge theories planar on-shell
diagrams are closely related to the positive Grassmannian and the cell
decomposition of it into the union of so called positroid cells \cite{A}. We
establish that volume forms on positroids used to express scattering amplitudes
can be $q$-deformed to Hochschild homology classes of corresponding quantum
algebras. The planar amplitudes are represented in \cite {A} as sums of
contributions of some set of positroid cells; we quantize these contributions.
In classical limit our considerations allow us to obtain explicit formulas for
contributions of positroid cells to scattering amplitudes.


Subclasses of the separable permutations

  We prove that all subclasses of the separable permutations not containing
Av(231) or a symmetry of this class have rational generating functions. Our
principal tools are partial well-order, atomicity, and the theory of strongly
rational permutation classes introduced here for the first time.


Homology of Lie algebra of supersymmetries

  We study the homology and cohomology groups of super Lie algebra of
supersymmetries and of super Poincare algebra. We discuss in detail the
calculation in dimensions D=10 and D=6. Our methods can be applied to extended
supersymmetry algebra and to other dimensions.


Pattern classes and priority queues

  When a set of permutations comprising a pattern class C is submitted as input
to a priority queue the resulting output is again a pattern class C'. The basis
of C' is determined for pattern classes C whose basis elements have length 3,
and is finite in these cases. An example is given of a class C with basis 2431
for which C is not finitely based.


Isomorphisms between pattern classes

  Isomorphisms p between pattern classes A and B are considered. It is shown
that, if p is not a symmetry of the entire set of permutations, then, to within
symmetry, A is a subset of one a small set of pattern classes whose structure,
including their enumeration, is determined.


Equipopularity Classes in the Separable Permutations

  When two patterns occur equally often in a set of permutations, we say that
these patterns are equipopular. Using both structural and analytic tools, we
classify the equipopular patterns in the set of separable permutations. In
particular, we show that the number of equipopularity classes for length $n$
patterns in the separable permutations is equal to the number of partitions of
$n-1$.


On the inverse image of pattern classes under bubble sort

  Let B be the operation of re-ordering a sequence by one pass of bubble sort.
We completely answer the question of when the inverse image of a principal
pattern class under B is a pattern class.


Integral invariants in flat superspace

  We are solving for the case of flat superspace some homological problems that
were formulated by Berkovits and Howe. (Our considerations can be applied also
to the case of supertorus.) These problems arise in the attempt to construct
integrals invariant with respect to supersymmetry. They appear also in other
situations, in particular, in the pure spinor formalism in supergravity.


An elementary proof of Bevan's theorem on the growth of grid classes of
  permutations

  Bevan established that the growth rate of a monotone grid class of
permutations is equal to the square of the spectral radius of a related
bipartite graph. We give an elementary and self-contained proof of a
generalization of this result using only Stirling's Formula, the method of
Lagrange multipliers, and the singular value decomposition of matrices.


Characterising inflations of monotone grid classes of permutations

  We characterise those permutation classes whose simple permutations are
monotone griddable. This characterisation is obtained by identifying a set of
nine substructures, at least one of which must occur in any simple permutation
containing a long sum of 21s.


The effect of the choice of neural network depth and breadth on the size
  of its hypothesis space

  We show that the number of unique function mappings in a neural network
hypothesis space is inversely proportional to $\prod_lU_l!$, where $U_{l}$ is
the number of neurons in the hidden layer $l$.


A general theory of Wilf-equivalence for Catalan structures

  The existence of apparently coincidental equalities (also called
Wilf-equivalences) between the enumeration sequences, or generating functions,
of various hereditary classes of combinatorial structures has attracted
significant interest. We investigate such coincidences among non-crossing
matchings and a variety of other Catalan structures including Dyck paths,
231-avoiding permutations and plane forests. In particular we consider
principal classes defined by not containing an occurrence of a single given
structure. An easily computed equivalence relation among structures is
described such that if two structures are equivalent then the associated
principal classes have the same enumeration sequence. We give an asymptotic
estimate of the number of equivalence classes of this relation among structures
of a given size and show that it is exponentially smaller than the
corresponding Catalan number. In other words these "coincidental" equalities
are in fact very common among principal classes. Our results also allow us to
prove, in a unified and bijective manner, several known Wilf-equivalences from
the literature.


Complexity of Scheduling Charging in the Smart Grid

  In the smart grid, the intent is to use flexibility in demand, both to
balance demand and supply as well as to resolve potential congestion. A first
prominent example of such flexible demand is the charging of electric vehicles,
which do not necessarily need to be charged as soon as they are plugged in. The
problem of optimally scheduling the charging demand of electric vehicles within
the constraints of the electricity infrastructure is called the charge
scheduling problem. The models of the charging speed, horizon, and charging
demand determine the computational complexity of the charge scheduling problem.
For about 20 variants, we show, using a dynamic programming approach, that the
problem is either in P or weakly NP-hard. We also show that about 10 variants
of the problem are strongly NP-hard, presenting a potentially significant
obstacle to their use in practical situations of scale.


Who Killed Albert Einstein? From Open Data to Murder Mystery Games

  This paper presents a framework for generating adventure games from open
data. Focusing on the murder mystery type of adventure games, the generator is
able to transform open data from Wikipedia articles, OpenStreetMap and images
from Wikimedia Commons into WikiMysteries. Every WikiMystery game revolves
around the murder of a person with a Wikipedia article and populates the game
with suspects who must be arrested by the player if guilty of the murder or
absolved if innocent. Starting from only one person as the victim, an extensive
generative pipeline finds suspects, their alibis, and paths connecting them
from open data, transforms open data into cities, buildings, non-player
characters, locks and keys and dialog options. The paper describes in detail
each generative step, provides a specific playthrough of one WikiMystery where
Albert Einstein is murdered, and evaluates the outcomes of games generated for
the 100 most influential people of the 20th century.


Noncommutative Geometry and Matrix Theory: Compactification on Tori

  We study toroidal compactification of Matrix theory, using ideas and results
of non-commutative geometry. We generalize this to compactification on the
noncommutative torus, explain the classification of these backgrounds, and
argue that they correspond in supergravity to tori with constant background
three-form tensor field. The paper includes an introduction for mathematicians
to the IKKT formulation of Matrix theory and its relation to the BFSS Matrix
theory.


The monodromy groups of Schwarzian equations on closed Riemann surfaces

  Let \theta:\pi_1(R) \to \PSL(2,\C) be a homomorphism of the fundamental group
of an oriented, closed surface R of genus exceeding one. We will establish the
following theorem.
  Theorem. Necessary and sufficient for \theta to be the monodromy
representation associated with a complex projective stucture on R, either
unbranched or with a single branch point of order 2, is that \theta(\pi_1(R))
be nonelementary. A branch point is required if and only if the representation
\theta does not lift to \SL(2,\C).


The Green's function for the radial Schramm-Loewner evolution

  We prove the existence of the Green's function for radial SLE(k) for k<8.
Unlike the chordal case where an explicit formula for the Green's function is
known for all values of k<8, we give an explicit formula only for k=4. For
other values of k, we give a formula in terms of an expectation with respect to
SLE conditioned to go through a point.


Ice XII in its second regime of metastability

  We present neutron powder diffraction results which give unambiguous evidence
for the formation of the recently identified new crystalline ice phase[Lobban
et al.,Nature, 391, 268, (1998)], labeled ice XII, at completely different
conditions. Ice XII is produced here by compressing hexagonal ice I_h at T =
77, 100, 140 and 160 K up to 1.8 GPa. It can be maintained at ambient pressure
in the temperature range 1.5 < T < 135 K. High resolution diffraction is
carried out at T = 1.5 K and ambient pressure on ice XII and accurate
structural properties are obtained from Rietveld refinement. At T = 140 and 160
K additionally ice III/IX is formed. The increasing amount of ice III/IX with
increasing temperature gives an upper limit of T ~ 150 K for the successful
formation of ice XII with the presented procedure.


Satellite-Mounted Light Sources as Photometric Calibration Standards

  A significant and growing portion of systematic error on a number of
fundamental parameters in astrophysics and cosmology is due to uncertainties
from absolute photometric and flux standards. A path toward achieving major
reduction in such uncertainties may be provided by satellite-mounted light
sources, resulting in improvement in the ability to precisely characterize
atmospheric extinction, and thus helping to usher in the coming generation of
precision results in astronomy. Toward this end, we have performed a campaign
of observations of the 532 nm pulsed laser aboard the CALIPSO satellite, using
a portable network of cameras and photodiodes, to precisely measure atmospheric
extinction.


Determination of the vacuum optomechanical coupling rate using frequency
  noise calibration

  The strength of optomechanical interactions in a cavity optomechanical system
can be quantified by a vacuum coupling rate $\vcr$ analogous to cavity quantum
electrodynamics. This single figure of merit removes the ambiguity in the
frequently quoted coupling parameter defining the frequency shift for a given
mechanical displacement, and the effective mass of the mechanical mode. Here we
demonstrate and verify a straightforward experimental technique to derive the
vacuum optomechanical coupling rate. It only requires applying a known
frequency modulation of the employed electromagnetic probe field and knowledge
of the mechanical oscillator's occupation. The method is experimentally
verified for a micromechanical mode in a toroidal whispering-gallery-resonator
and a nanomechanical oscillator coupled to a toroidal cavity via its near
field.


Elastic Splines I: Existence

  Given interpolation points $P_1,P_2,\ldots,P_n$ in the plane, it is known
that there does not exist an interpolating curve with minimal bending energy,
unless the given points lie sequentially along a line. We say than an
interpolating curve is {\it admissable} if each piece, connecting two
consecutive points $P_i$ and $P_{i+1}$, is an s-curve, where an {\it s-curve}
is a planar curve which first turns at most $180^\circ$ in one direction and
then turns at most $180^\circ$ in the opposite direction. Our main result is
that among all admissable interpolating curves there exists a curve with
minimal bending energy. We also prove, in a very constructive manner, the
existence of an s-curve, with minimal bending energy, which connects two given
unit tangent vectors.


Einstein's cosmology review of 1933: a new perspective on the
  Einstein-de Sitter model of the cosmos

  We present a first English translation and analysis of a little-known review
of relativistic cosmology written by Albert Einstein in late 1932. The article,
which was published in 1933 in a book of Einstein papers translated into
French, contains a substantial review of static and dynamic relativistic models
of the cosmos, culminating in a discussion of the Einstein-de Sitter model. The
article offers a valuable contemporaneous insight into Einstein's cosmology in
the 1930s and confirms that his interest lay in the development of the simplest
model of the cosmos that could account for observation, rather than an
exploration of all possible cosmic models. The article also confirms that
Einstein did not believe that simplistic relativistic models could give an
accurate description of the early universe.


Elastic Splines II: unicity of optimal s-curves and $G^2$ regularity of
  splines

  Given points $P_1,P_2,\ldots,P_m$ in the complex plane, we are concerned with
the problem of finding an interpolating curve with minimal bending energy
(i.e., an optimal interpolating curve). It was shown previously that existence
is assured if one requires that the pieces of the interpolating curve be
s-curves. In the present article we also impose the restriction that these
s-curves have chord angles not exceeding $\pi/2$ in magnitude. With this setup,
we have identified a sufficient condition for the $G^2$ regularity of optimal
interpolating curves. This sufficient condition relates to the stencil angles
$\{\psi_j\}$, where $\psi_j$ is defined as the angular change in direction from
segment $[P_{j-1},P_j]$ to segment $[P_j,P_{j+1}]$. A distinguished angle
$\Psi$ ($\approx 37^\circ$) is identified, and we show that if the stencil
angles satisfy $|\psi_j|<\Psi$, then optimal interpolating curves are globally
$G^2$.
  As with the previous article, most of our effort is concerned with the
geometric Hermite interpolation problem of finding an optimal s-curve which
connects $P_1$ to $P_2$ with prescribed chord angles $(\alpha,\beta)$. Whereas
existence was previously shown, and sometimes uniqueness, the present article
begins by establishing uniqueness when $|\alpha |,|\beta |\leq\pi/2$ and
$|\alpha -\beta|<\pi$.


Coherent brightness modulations in the dwarf nova AT Cancri

  Light curves of the Z Cam type dwarf nova AT Cnc observed during standstill
in 2016 and 2018 are analyzed. On the time scale of hours, previous reports on
periodicities, in particular the presence of negative superhumps, could not be
confirmed. Instead, a modulation with a period equal to the spectroscopic
orbital period was detected which we thus interpret as a manifestations of the
binary revolution. It enables us to derive a more accurate value of 0.201634
$\pm$ 0.000005 days (or its alias of 0.021580 days) for the period. AT Cnc also
exhibits a hitherto unreported modulation of 25.731 $\pm$ 0.005 min, stable in
period but not in amplitude over the entire time base of two years of the
observations. We tentatively interpret this modulation in the context of an
intermediate polar model for the system.


Optimal treatment planning governed by kinetic equations

  In this paper we study a problem in radiotherapy treatment planning, where
the evolution of the radiation field is governed by a deterministic Boltzmann
transport equation. We show existence, uniqueness and regularity of solutions
to an optimal dose distribution problem constrained by the Boltzmann Continuous
Slowing-Down equation in an appropriate function space. The main new difficulty
is the treatment of the stopping power term. Furthermore, we characterize
optimal controls for problems governed by this transport equation.


Geometric grid classes of permutations

  A geometric grid class consists of those permutations that can be drawn on a
specified set of line segments of slope \pm1 arranged in a rectangular pattern
governed by a matrix. Using a mixture of geometric and language theoretic
methods, we prove that such classes are specified by finite sets of forbidden
permutations, are partially well ordered, and have rational generating
functions. Furthermore, we show that these properties are inherited by the
subclasses (under permutation involvement) of such classes, and establish the
basic lattice theoretic properties of the collection of all such subclasses.


Large infinite antichains of permutations

  Infinite antichains of permutations have long been used to construct
interesting permutation classes and counterexamples. We prove the existence and
detail the construction of infinite antichains with arbitrarily large growth
rates. As a consequence, we show that every proper permutation class is
contained in a class with a rational generating function. While this result
implies the conclusion of the Marcus-Tardos theorem, that theorem is used in
our proof.


Generating and enumerating 321-avoiding and skew-merged simple
  permutations

  The simple permutations in two permutation classes --- the 321-avoiding
permutations and the skew-merged permutations --- are enumerated using a
uniform method. In both cases, these enumerations were known implicitly, by
working backwards from the enumeration of the class, but the simple
permutations had not been enumerated explicitly. In particular, the enumeration
of the simple skew-merged permutations leads to the first truly structural
enumeration of this class as a whole. The extension of this method to a wider
collection of classes namely grid classes of infinite paths is discussed.


Enumerating indices of Schubert varieties defined by inclusions

  By extending the notion of grid classes to include infinite grids, we
establish a structural characterisation of the simple permutations in Av(4231,
35142, 42513, 351624), a pattern class which has three different connections
with algebraic geometry, including the specification of indices of Schubert
varieties defined by inclusions. This characterisation leads to the enumeration
of the class.


Collatz meets Fibonacci

  The Collatz map is defined for a positive even integer as half that integer,
and for a positive odd integer as that integer threefold, plus one. The Collatz
conjecture states that when the map is iterated the number one is eventually
reached. We study permutations that arise as sequences from this iteration. We
show that permutations of this type of length up to 14 are enumerated by the
Fibonacci numbers. Beyond that excess permutations appear. We will explain the
appearance of these excess permutations and give an upper bound on the exact
enumeration.


Rationality for subclasses of 321-avoiding permutations

  We prove that every proper subclass of the 321-avoiding permutations that is
defined either by only finitely many additional restrictions or is well
quasi-ordered has a rational generating function. To do so we show that any
such class is in bijective correspondence with a regular language. The proof
makes significant use of formal languages and of a host of encodings, including
a new mapping called the panel encoding that maps languages over the infinite
alphabet of positive integers avoiding certain subwords to languages over
finite alphabets.


$2\times 2$ monotone grid classes are finitely based

  In this note, we prove that all $2 \times 2$ monotone grid classes are
finitely based, i.e., defined by a finite collection of minimal forbidden
permutations. This follows from a slightly more general result about certain $2
\times 2$ (generalized) grid classes having two monotone cells in the same row.


On factorizing $F$-matrices in $Y(sl_n)$ and $U_q(\hat{sl_n})$ spin
  chains

  We consider quantum spin chains arising from $N$-fold tensor products of the
fundamental evaluation representations of $Y(sl_n)$ and $U_q(\hat{sl_n})$.
Using the partial $F$-matrix formalism from the seminal work of Maillet and
Sanchez de Santos, we derive a completely factorized expression for the
$F$-matrix of such models and prove its equivalence to the expression obtained
by Albert, Boos, Flume and Ruhlig. A new relation between the $F$-matrices and
the Bethe eigenvectors of these spin chains is given.


On the growth of merges and staircases of permutation classes

  There is a well-known upper bound on the growth rate of the merge of two
permutation classes. Curiously, there is no known merge for which this bound is
not achieved. Using staircases of permutation classes, we provide sufficient
conditions for this upper bound to be achieved. In particular, our results
apply to all merges of principal permutation classes. We end by demonstrating
how our techniques can be used to reprove a result of B\'ona.


Prolific Compositions

  Under what circumstances might every extension of a combinatorial structure
contain more copies of another one than the original did? This property, which
we call prolificity, holds universally in some cases (e.g., finite linear
orders) and only trivially in others (e.g., permutations). Integer
compositions, or equivalently layered permutations, provide a middle ground. In
that setting, there are prolific compositions for a given pattern if and only
if that pattern begins and ends with 1. For each pattern, there is an easily
constructed automaton that recognises prolific compositions for that pattern.
Some instances where there is a unique minimal prolific composition for a
pattern are classified.


