Spectrum Sharing as Network Congestion Games

  This paper has been withdrawn by the first author due to incomplete
bibliography and incorporation of multiple formats in the same file.


To Stay Or To Switch: Multiuser Dynamic Channel Access

  In this paper we study opportunistic spectrum access (OSA) policies in a
multiuser multichannel random access cognitive radio network, where users
perform channel probing and switching in order to obtain better channel
condition or higher instantaneous transmission quality. However, unlikely many
prior works in this area, including those on channel probing and switching
policies for a single user to exploit spectral diversity, and on probing and
access policies for multiple users over a single channel to exploit temporal
and multiuser diversity, in this study we consider the collective switching of
multiple users over multiple channels. In addition, we consider finite
arrivals, i.e., users are not assumed to always have data to send and demand
for channel follow a certain arrival process. Under such a scenario, the users'
ability to opportunistically exploit temporal diversity (the temporal variation
in channel quality over a single channel) and spectral diversity (quality
variation across multiple channels at a given time) is greatly affected by the
level of congestion in the system. We investigate the optimal decision process
in this case, and evaluate the extent to which congestion affects potential
gains from opportunistic dynamic channel switching.


Revisiting Optimal Power Control: its Dual Effect on SNR and Contention

  In this paper we study a transmission power tune problem with densely
deployed 802.11 Wireless Local Area Networks (WLANs). While previous papers
emphasize on tuning transmission power with either PHY or MAC layer separately,
optimally setting each Access Point's (AP's) transmission power of a densely
deployed 802.11 network considering its dual effects on both layers remains an
open problem. In this work, we design a measure by evaluating impacts of
transmission power on network performance on both PHY and MAC layers. We show
that such an optimization problem is intractable and then we investigate and
develop an analytical framework to allow simple yet efficient solutions.
Through simulations and numerical results, we observe clear benefits of the
dual-effect model compared to solutions optimizing solely on a single layer;
therefore, we conclude that tuning transmission power from a dual layer
(PHY-MAC) point of view is essential and necessary for dense WLANs. We further
form a game theoretical framework and investigate above power-tune problem in a
strategic network. We show that with decentralized and strategic users, the
Nash Equilibrium (N.E.) of the corresponding game is in-efficient and
thereafter we propose a punishment based mechanism to enforce users to adopt
the social optimal strategy profile under both perfect and imperfect sensing
environments.


Optimal Relay Selection with Non-negligible Probing Time

  In this paper an optimal relay selection algorithm with non-negligible
probing time is proposed and analyzed for cooperative wireless networks. Relay
selection has been introduced to solve the degraded bandwidth efficiency
problem in cooperative communication. Yet complete information of relay
channels often remain unavailable for complex networks which renders the
optimal selection strategies impossible for transmission source without probing
the relay channels. Particularly when the number of relay candidate is large,
even though probing all relay channels guarantees the finding of the best
relays at any time instant, the degradation of bandwidth efficiency due to
non-negligible probing times, which was often neglected in past literature, is
also significant. In this work, a stopping rule based relay selection strategy
is determined for the source node to decide when to stop the probing process
and choose one of the probed relays to cooperate with under wireless channels'
stochastic uncertainties. This relay selection strategy is further shown to
have a simple threshold structure. At the meantime, full diversity order and
high bandwidth efficiency can be achieved simultaneously. Both analytical and
simulation results are provided to verify the claims.


Distributed Learning of Average Belief Over Networks Using Sequential
  Observations

  This paper addresses the problem of distributed learning of average belief
with sequential observations, in which a network of $n>1$ agents aim to reach a
consensus on the average value of their beliefs, by exchanging information only
with their neighbors. Each agent has sequentially arriving samples of its
belief in an online manner. The neighbor relationships among the $n$ agents are
described by a graph which is possibly time-varying, whose vertices correspond
to agents and whose edges depict neighbor relationships. Two distributed online
algorithms are introduced for undirected and directed graphs, which are both
shown to converge to the average belief almost surely. Moreover, the sequences
generated by both algorithms are shown to reach consensus with an $O(1/t)$ rate
with high probability, where $t$ is the number of iterations. For undirected
graphs, the corresponding algorithm is modified for the case with quantized
communication and limited precision of the division operation. It is shown that
the modified algorithm causes all $n$ agents to either reach a quantized
consensus or enter a small neighborhood around the average of their beliefs.
Numerical simulations are then provided to corroborate the theoretical results.


DorFin: WiFi Fingerprint-based Localization Revisited

  Although WiFi fingerprint-based indoor localization is attractive, its
accuracy remains a primary challenge especially in mobile environments.
Existing approaches either appeal to physical layer information or rely on
extra wireless signals for high accuracy. In this paper, we revisit the RSS
fingerprint-based localization scheme and reveal crucial observations that act
as the root causes of localization errors, yet are surprisingly overlooked or
even unseen in previous works. Specifically, we recognize APs' diverse
discrimination for fingerprinting a specific location, observe the RSS
inconsistency caused by signal fluctuations and human body blockages, and
uncover the RSS outdated problem on commodity smartphones. Inspired by these
insights, we devise a discrimination factor to quantify different APs'
discrimination, incorporate robust regression to tolerate outlier measurements,
and reassemble different fingerprints to cope with outdated RSSs. Combining
these techniques in a unified solution, we propose DorFin, a novel scheme of
fingerprint generation, representation, and matching, which yields remarkable
accuracy without incurring extra cost. Extensive experiments demonstrate that
DorFin achieves mean error of 2 meters and more importantly, bounds the 95th
percentile error under 5.5 meters; these are about 56% and 69% lower,
respectively, compared with the state-of-the-art schemes such as Horus and
RADAR.


On Throughput Scaling of Wireless Networks: Effect of Node Density and
  Propagation Model

  This paper derives a lower bound to the per-node throughput achievable by a
wireless network when n source-destination pairs are randomly distributed
throughout a disk of radius $n^\gamma$, $ \gamma \geq 0$, propagation is
modeled by attenuation of the form $1/(1+d)^\alpha$, $\alpha >2$, and
successful transmission occurs at a fixed rate W when received signal to noise
and interference ratio is greater than some threshold $\beta$, and at rate 0
otherwise. The lower bound has the form $n^{1-\gamma}$ when $\gamma < 1/2$, and
$(n \ln n)^{-1/2}$ when $\gamma \geq 1/2$. The methods are similar to, but
somewhat simpler than, those in the seminal paper by Gupta and Kumar.


Optimality of Myopic Sensing in Multi-Channel Opportunistic Access

  We consider opportunistic communications over multiple channels where the
state ("good" or "bad") of each channel evolves as independent and identically
distributed Markov processes. A user, with limited sensing and access
capability, chooses one channel to sense and subsequently access (based on the
sensed channel state) in each time slot. A reward is obtained when the user
senses and accesses a "good" channel. The objective is to design the optimal
channel selection policy that maximizes the expected reward accrued over time.
This problem can be generally cast as a Partially Observable Markov Decision
Process (POMDP) or a restless multi-armed bandit process, to which optimal
solutions are often intractable. We show in this paper that the myopic policy,
with a simple and robust structure, achieves optimality under certain
conditions. This result finds applications in opportunistic communications in
fading environment, cognitive radio networks for spectrum overlay, and
resource-constrained jamming and anti-jamming.


Channel Estimation for Opportunistic Spectrum Access: Uniform and Random
  Sensing

  The knowledge of channel statistics can be very helpful in making sound
opportunistic spectrum access decisions. It is therefore desirable to be able
to efficiently and accurately estimate channel statistics. In this paper we
study the problem of optimally placing sensing times over a time window so as
to get the best estimate on the parameters of an on-off renewal channel. We are
particularly interested in a sparse sensing regime with a small number of
samples relative to the time window size. Using Fisher information as a
measure, we analytically derive the best and worst sensing sequences under a
sparsity condition. We also present a way to derive the best/worst sequences
without this condition using a dynamic programming approach. In both cases the
worst turns out to be the uniform sensing sequence, where sensing times are
evenly spaced within the window. With these results we argue that without a
priori knowledge, a robust sensing strategy should be a randomized strategy. We
then compare different random schemes using a family of distributions generated
by the circular $\beta$ ensemble, and propose an adaptive sensing scheme to
effectively track time-varying channel parameters. We further discuss the
applicability of compressive sensing for this problem.


Online Algorithms for the Multi-Armed Bandit Problem with Markovian
  Rewards

  We consider the classical multi-armed bandit problem with Markovian rewards.
When played an arm changes its state in a Markovian fashion while it remains
frozen when not played. The player receives a state-dependent reward each time
it plays an arm. The number of states and the state transition probabilities of
an arm are unknown to the player. The player's objective is to maximize its
long-term total reward by learning the best arm over time. We show that under
certain conditions on the state transition probabilities of the arms, a sample
mean based index policy achieves logarithmic regret uniformly over the total
number of trials. The result shows that sample mean based index policies can be
applied to learning problems under the rested Markovian bandit model without
loss of optimality in the order. Moreover, comparision between Anantharam's
index policy and UCB shows that by choosing a small exploration parameter UCB
can have a smaller regret than Anantharam's index policy.


Online Learning of Rested and Restless Bandits

  In this paper we study the online learning problem involving rested and
restless multiarmed bandits with multiple plays. The system consists of a
single player/user and a set of K finite-state discrete-time Markov chains
(arms) with unknown state spaces and statistics. At each time step the player
can play M arms. The objective of the user is to decide for each step which M
of the K arms to play over a sequence of trials so as to maximize its long term
reward. The restless multiarmed bandit is particularly relevant to the
application of opportunistic spectrum access (OSA), where a (secondary) user
has access to a set of K channels, each of time-varying condition as a result
of random fading and/or certain primary users' activities.


Optimal Adaptive Learning in Uncontrolled Restless Bandit Problems

  In this paper we consider the problem of learning the optimal policy for
uncontrolled restless bandit problems. In an uncontrolled restless bandit
problem, there is a finite set of arms, each of which when pulled yields a
positive reward. There is a player who sequentially selects one of the arms at
each time step. The goal of the player is to maximize its undiscounted reward
over a time horizon T. The reward process of each arm is a finite state Markov
chain, whose transition probabilities are unknown by the player. State
transitions of each arm is independent of the selection of the player. We
propose a learning algorithm with logarithmic regret uniformly over time with
respect to the optimal finite horizon policy. Our results extend the optimal
adaptive learning of MDPs to POMDPs.


Performance and Convergence of Multi-user Online Learning

  We study the problem of allocating multiple users to a set of wireless
channels in a decentralized manner when the channel quali- ties are
time-varying and unknown to the users, and accessing the same channel by
multiple users leads to reduced quality due to interference. In such a setting
the users not only need to learn the inherent channel quality and at the same
time the best allocations of users to channels so as to maximize the social
welfare. Assuming that the users adopt a certain online learning algorithm, we
investigate under what conditions the socially optimal allocation is
achievable. In particular we examine the effect of different levels of
knowledge the users may have and the amount of communications and cooperation.
The general conclusion is that when the cooperation of users decreases and the
uncertainty about channel payoffs increases it becomes harder to achieve the
socially opti- mal allocation.


Throughput Optimal Switching in Multi-channel WLANs

  We observe that in a multi-channel wireless system, an opportunistic
channel/spectrum access scheme that solely focuses on channel quality sensing
measured by received SNR may induce users to use channels that, while providing
better signals, are more congested. Ultimately the notion of channel quality
should include both the signal quality and the level of congestion, and a good
multi-channel access scheme should take both into account in deciding which
channel to use and when. Motivated by this, we focus on the congestion aspect
and examine what type of dynamic channel switching schemes may result in the
best system throughput performance. Specifically we derive the stability region
of a multi-user multi-channel WLAN system and determine the throughput optimal
channel switching scheme within a certain class of schemes.


Online Learning in Decentralized Multiuser Resource Sharing Problems

  In this paper, we consider the general scenario of resource sharing in a
decentralized system when the resource rewards/qualities are time-varying and
unknown to the users, and using the same resource by multiple users leads to
reduced quality due to resource sharing. Firstly, we consider a
user-independent reward model with no communication between the users, where a
user gets feedback about the congestion level in the resource it uses.
Secondly, we consider user-specific rewards and allow costly communication
between the users. The users have a cooperative goal of achieving the highest
system utility. There are multiple obstacles in achieving this goal such as the
decentralized nature of the system, unknown resource qualities, communication,
computation and switching costs. We propose distributed learning algorithms
with logarithmic regret with respect to the optimal allocation. Our logarithmic
regret result holds under both i.i.d. and Markovian reward models, as well as
under communication, computation and switching costs.


Closing the Price of Anarchy Gap in the Interdependent Security Game

  The reliability and security of a user in an interconnected system depends on
all users' collective effort in security. Consequently, investments in security
technologies by strategic users is typically modeled as a public good problem,
known as the Interdependent Security (IDS) game. The equilibria for such games
are often inefficient, as selfish users free-ride on positive externalities of
others' contributions. In this paper, we present a mechanism that implements
the socially optimal equilibrium in an IDS game through a message exchange
process, in which users submit proposals about the security investment and
tax/price profiles of one another. This mechanism is different from existing
solutions in that (1) it results in socially optimal levels of investment,
closing the Price of Anarchy gap in the IDS game, (2) it is applicable to a
general model of user interdependencies. We further consider the issue of
individual rationality, often a trivial condition to satisfy in many resource
allocation problems, and argue that with positive externality, the incentive to
stay out and free-ride on others' investment can make individual rationality
much harder to satisfy in designing a mechanism.


Dynamic Pricing of Power in Smart-Grid Networks

  In this paper we introduce the problem of dynamic pricing of power for
smart-grid networks. This is studied within a network utility maximization
(NUM) framework in a deterministic setting with a single provider, multiple
users and a finite horizon. The provider produces power or buys power in a
(deterministic) spot market, and determines a dynamic price to charge the
users. The users then adjust their demand in response to the time-varying
prices. This is typically categorized as the demand response problem, and we
study a progression of related models by focusing on two aspects: 1) the
characterization of the structure of the optimal dynamic prices in the Smart
Grid and the optimal demand and supply under various interaction with a spot
market; 2) a greedy approach to facilitate the solution process of the
aggregate NUM problem and the optimality gap between the greedy solution and
the optimal one.


Impact of Community Structure on Cascades

  The threshold model is widely used to study the propagation of opinions and
technologies in social networks. In this model individuals adopt the new
behavior based on how many neighbors have already chosen it. We study cascades
under the threshold model on sparse random graphs with community structure to
see whether the existence of communities affects the number of individuals who
finally adopt the new behavior. Specifically, we consider the permanent
adoption model where nodes that have adopted the new behavior cannot change
their state. When seeding a small number of agents with the new behavior, the
community structure has little effect on the final proportion of people that
adopt it, i.e., the contagion threshold is the same as if there were just one
community. On the other hand, seeding a fraction of population with the new
behavior has a significant impact on the cascade with the optimal seeding
strategy depending on how strongly the communities are connected. In
particular, when the communities are strongly connected, seeding in one
community outperforms the symmetric seeding strategy that seeds equally in all
communities.


Online Learning for Combinatorial Network Optimization with Restless
  Markovian Rewards

  Combinatorial network optimization algorithms that compute optimal structures
taking into account edge weights form the foundation for many network
protocols. Examples include shortest path routing, minimal spanning tree
computation, maximum weighted matching on bipartite graphs, etc. We present
CLRMR, the first online learning algorithm that efficiently solves the
stochastic version of these problems where the underlying edge weights vary as
independent Markov chains with unknown dynamics.
  The performance of an online learning algorithm is characterized in terms of
regret, defined as the cumulative difference in rewards between a
suitably-defined genie, and that obtained by the given algorithm. We prove
that, compared to a genie that knows the Markov transition matrices and uses
the single-best structure at all times, CLRMR yields regret that is polynomial
in the number of edges and nearly-logarithmic in time.


A Tale of Two Mechanisms: Incentivizing Investments in Security Games

  In a system of interdependent users, the security of an entity is affected
not only by that user's investment in security measures, but also by the
positive externality of the security decisions of (some of) the other users.
The provision of security in such system is therefore modeled as a public good
provision problem, and is referred to as a security game. In this paper, we
compare two well-known incentive mechanisms in this context for incentivizing
optimal security investments among users, namely the Pivotal and the
Externality mechanisms. The taxes in a Pivotal mechanism are designed to ensure
users' voluntary participation, while those in an Externality mechanism are
devised to maintain a balanced budget. We first show the more general result
that, due to the non-excludable nature of security, no mechanism can
incentivize the socially optimal investment profile, while at the same time
ensuring voluntary participation and maintaining a balanced budget for all
instances of security games. To further illustrate, we apply the Pivotal and
Externality mechanisms to the special case of weighted total effort
interdependence models, and identify some of the effects of varying
interdependency between users on the budget deficit in the Pivotal mechanism,
as well as on the participation incentives in the Externality mechanism.


Online Learning in a Contract Selection Problem

  In an online contract selection problem there is a seller which offers a set
of contracts to sequentially arriving buyers whose types are drawn from an
unknown distribution. If there exists a profitable contract for the buyer in
the offered set, i.e., a contract with payoff higher than the payoff of not
accepting any contracts, the buyer chooses the contract that maximizes its
payoff. In this paper we consider the online contract selection problem to
maximize the sellers profit. Assuming that a structural property called ordered
preferences holds for the buyer's payoff function, we propose online learning
algorithms that have sub-linear regret with respect to the best set of
contracts given the distribution over the buyer's type. This problem has many
applications including spectrum contracts, wireless service provider data plans
and recommendation systems.


Efficient Sensor Fault Detection Using Group Testing

  When faulty sensors are rare in a network, diagnosing sensors individually is
inefficient. This study introduces a novel use of concepts from group testing
and Kalman filtering in detecting these rare faulty sensors with significantly
fewer number of tests. By assigning sensors to groups and performing Kalman
filter-based fault detection over these groups, we obtain binary detection
outcomes, which can then be used to recover the fault state of all sensors. We
first present this method using combinatorial group testing. We then present a
novel adaptive group testing method based on Bayesian inference. This adaptive
method further reduces the number of required tests and is suitable for noisy
group test systems. Compared to non-group testing methods, our algorithm
achieves similar detection accuracy with fewer tests and thus lower
computational complexity. Compared to other adaptive group testing methods, the
proposed method achieves higher accuracy when test results are noisy. We
perform extensive numerical analysis using a set of real vibration data
collected from the New Carquinez Bridge in California using an 18-sensor
network mounted on the bridge. We also discuss how the features of the Kalman
filter-based group test can be exploited in forming groups and further
improving the detection accuracy.


On the Role of Public and Private Assessments in Security Information
  Sharing Agreements

  In recent years, sharing of security information among organizations,
particularly information on both successful and failed security breaches, has
been proposed as a method for improving the state of cybersecurity. However,
there is a conflict between individual and social goals in these agreements:
despite the benefits of making such information available, the associated
disclosure costs (e.g., drop in market value and loss of reputation) act as a
disincentive for firms' full disclosure. In this work, we take a game theoretic
approach to understanding firms' incentives for disclosing their security
information given such costs. We propose a repeated game formulation of these
interactions, allowing for the design of inter-temporal incentives (i.e.,
conditioning future cooperation on the history of past interactions).
Specifically, we show that a rating/assessment system can play a key role in
enabling the design of appropriate incentives for supporting cooperation among
firms. We further show that in the absence of a monitor, similar incentives can
be designed if participating firms are provided with a communication platform,
through which they can share their beliefs about others' adherence to the
agreement.


Provision of Public Goods on Networks: On Existence, Uniqueness, and
  Centralities

  We consider the provision of public goods on networks of strategic agents. We
study different effort outcomes of these network games, namely, the Nash
equilibria, Pareto efficient effort profiles, and semi-cooperative equilibria
(effort profiles resulting from interactions among coalitions of agents). We
identify necessary and sufficient conditions on the structure of the network
for the uniqueness of the Nash equilibrium. We show that our finding unifies
(and strengthens) existing results in the literature. We also identify
conditions for the existence of Nash equilibria for the subclasses of games at
the two extremes of our model, namely games of strategic complements and games
of strategic substitutes. We provide a graph-theoretical interpretation of
agents' efforts at the Nash equilibrium, as well as the Pareto efficient
outcomes and semi-cooperative equilibria, by linking an agent's decision to her
centrality in the interaction network. Using this connection, we separate the
effects of incoming and outgoing edges on agents' efforts and uncover an
alternating effect over walks of different length in the network.


Improving the Privacy and Accuracy of ADMM-Based Distributed Algorithms

  Alternating direction method of multiplier (ADMM) is a popular method used to
design distributed versions of a machine learning algorithm, whereby local
computations are performed on local data with the output exchanged among
neighbors in an iterative fashion. During this iterative process the leakage of
data privacy arises. A differentially private ADMM was proposed in prior work
(Zhang & Zhu, 2017) where only the privacy loss of a single node during one
iteration was bounded, a method that makes it difficult to balance the tradeoff
between the utility attained through distributed computation and privacy
guarantees when considering the total privacy loss of all nodes over the entire
iterative process. We propose a perturbation method for ADMM where the
perturbed term is correlated with the penalty parameters; this is shown to
improve the utility and privacy simultaneously. The method is based on a
modified ADMM where each node independently determines its own penalty
parameter in every iteration and decouples it from the dual updating step size.
The condition for convergence of the modified ADMM and the lower bound on the
convergence rate are also derived.


Recycled ADMM: Improve Privacy and Accuracy with Less Computation in
  Distributed Algorithms

  Alternating direction method of multiplier (ADMM) is a powerful method to
solve decentralized convex optimization problems. In distributed settings, each
node performs computation with its local data and the local results are
exchanged among neighboring nodes in an iterative fashion. During this
iterative process the leakage of data privacy arises and can accumulate
significantly over many iterations, making it difficult to balance the
privacy-utility tradeoff. In this study we propose Recycled ADMM (R-ADMM),
where a linear approximation is applied to every even iteration, its solution
directly calculated using only results from the previous, odd iteration. It
turns out that under such a scheme, half of the updates incur no privacy loss
and require much less computation compared to the conventional ADMM. We obtain
a sufficient condition for the convergence of R-ADMM and provide the privacy
analysis based on objective perturbation.


Characterizing Adversarial Examples Based on Spatial Consistency
  Information for Semantic Segmentation

  Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) have been widely applied in various recognition
tasks. However, recently DNNs have been shown to be vulnerable against
adversarial examples, which can mislead DNNs to make arbitrary incorrect
predictions. While adversarial examples are well studied in classification
tasks, other learning problems may have different properties. For instance,
semantic segmentation requires additional components such as dilated
convolutions and multiscale processing. In this paper, we aim to characterize
adversarial examples based on spatial context information in semantic
segmentation. We observe that spatial consistency information can be
potentially leveraged to detect adversarial examples robustly even when a
strong adaptive attacker has access to the model and detection strategies. We
also show that adversarial examples based on attacks considered within the
paper barely transfer among models, even though transferability is common in
classification. Our observations shed new light on developing adversarial
attacks and defenses to better understand the vulnerabilities of DNNs.


Group Learning and Opinion Diffusion in a Broadcast Network

  We analyze the following group learning problem in the context of opinion
diffusion: Consider a network with $M$ users, each facing $N$ options. In a
discrete time setting, at each time step, each user chooses $K$ out of the $N$
options, and receive randomly generated rewards, whose statistics depend on the
options chosen as well as the user itself, and are unknown to the users. Each
user aims to maximize their expected total rewards over a certain time horizon
through an online learning process, i.e., a sequence of exploration (sampling
the return of each option) and exploitation (selecting empirically good
options) steps.
  Within this context we consider two group learning scenarios, (1) users with
uniform preferences and (2) users with diverse preferences, and examine how a
user should construct its learning process to best extract information from
other's decisions and experiences so as to maximize its own reward. Performance
is measured in {\em weak regret}, the difference between the user's total
reward and the reward from a user-specific best single-action policy (i.e.,
always selecting the set of options generating the highest mean rewards for
this user). Within each scenario we also consider two cases: (i) when users
exchange full information, meaning they share the actual rewards they obtained
from their choices, and (ii) when users exchange limited information, e.g.,
only their choices but not rewards obtained from these choices.


Throughput Scaling in Random Wireless Networks: A Non-Hierarchical
  Multipath Routing Strategy

  Franceschetti et al. have recently shown that per-node throughput in an
extended, ad hoc wireless network with $\Theta(n)$ randomly distributed nodes
and multihop routing can be increased from the $\Omega({1 \over \sqrt{n} \log
n})$ scaling demonstrated in the seminal paper of Gupta and Kumar to $\Omega({1
\over \sqrt{n}})$. The goal of the present paper is to understand the
dependence of this interesting result on the principal new features it
introduced relative to Gupta-Kumar: (1) a capacity-based formula for link
transmission bit-rates in terms of received signal-to-interference-and-noise
ratio (SINR); (2) hierarchical routing from sources to destinations through a
system of communal highways; and (3) cell-based routes constructed by
percolation. The conclusion of the present paper is that the improved
throughput scaling is principally due to the percolation-based routing, which
enables shorter hops and, consequently, less interference. This is established
by showing that throughput $\Omega({1 \over \sqrt{n}})$ can be attained by a
system that does not employ highways, but instead uses percolation to
establish, for each source-destination pair, a set of $\Theta(\log n)$ routes
within a narrow routing corridor running from source to destination. As a
result, highways are not essential. In addition, it is shown that throughput
$\Omega({1 \over \sqrt{n}})$ can be attained with the original threshold
transmission bit-rate model, provided that node transmission powers are
permitted to grow with $n$. Thus, the benefit of the capacity bit-rate model is
simply to permit the power to remain bounded, even as the network expands.


Multi-channel Opportunistic Access: A Case of Restless Bandits with
  Multiple Plays

  This paper considers the following stochastic control problem that arises in
opportunistic spectrum access: a system consists of n channels (Gilbert-Elliot
channels)where the state (good or bad) of each channel evolves as independent
and identically distributed Markov processes. A user can select exactly k
channels to sense and access (based on the sensing result) in each time slot. A
reward is obtained whenever the user senses and accesses a good channel. The
objective is to design a channel selection policy that maximizes the expected
discounted total reward accrued over a finite or infinite horizon. In our
previous work we established the optimality of a greedy policy for the special
case of k = 1 (i.e., single channel access) under the condition that the
channel state transitions are positively correlated over time. In this paper we
show under the same condition the greedy policy is optimal for the general case
of k >= 1; the methodology introduced here is thus more general. This problem
may be viewed as a special case of the restless bandit problem, with multiple
plays. We discuss connections between the current problem and existing
literature on this class of problems.


Congestion games with resource reuse and applications in spectrum
  sharing

  In this paper we consider an extension to the classical definition of
congestion games (CG) in which multiple users share the same set of resources
and their payoff for using any resource is a function of the total number of
users sharing it. The classical congestion games enjoy some very appealing
properties, including the existence of a Nash equilibrium and that every
improvement path is finite and leads to such a NE (also called the finite
improvement property or FIP), which is also a local optimum to a potential
function. On the other hand, this class of games does not model well the
congestion or resource sharing in a wireless context, a prominent feature of
which is spatial reuse. What this translates to in the context of a congestion
game is that a users payoff for using a resource (interpreted as a channel) is
a function of the its number of its interfering users sharing that channel,
rather than the total number among all users. This makes the problem quite
different. We will call this the congestion game with resource reuse (CG-RR).
In this paper we study intrinsic properties of such a game; in particular, we
seek to address under what conditions on the underlying network this game
possesses the FIP or NE. We also discuss the implications of these results when
applied to wireless spectrum sharing


CapEst: A Measurement-based Approach to Estimating Link Capacity in
  Wireless Networks

  Estimating link capacity in a wireless network is a complex task because the
available capacity at a link is a function of not only the current arrival rate
at that link, but also of the arrival rate at links which interfere with that
link as well as of the nature of interference between these links. Models which
accurately characterize this dependence are either too computationally complex
to be useful or lack accuracy. Further, they have a high implementation
overhead and make restrictive assumptions, which makes them inapplicable to
real networks.
  In this paper, we propose CapEst, a general, simple yet accurate,
measurement-based approach to estimating link capacity in a wireless network.
To be computationally light, CapEst allows inaccuracy in estimation; however,
using measurements, it can correct this inaccuracy in an iterative fashion and
converge to the correct estimate. Our evaluation shows that CapEst always
converged to within 5% of the correct value in less than 18 iterations. CapEst
is model-independent, hence, is applicable to any MAC/PHY layer and works with
auto-rate adaptation. Moreover, it has a low implementation overhead, can be
used with any application which requires an estimate of residual capacity on a
wireless link and can be implemented completely at the network layer without
any support from the underlying chipset.


Spectrum Sharing as Spatial Congestion Games

  In this paper, we present and analyze the properties of a new class of games
- the spatial congestion game (SCG), which is a generalization of the classical
congestion game (CG). In a classical congestion game, multiple users share the
same set of resources and a user's payoff for using any resource is a function
of the total number of users sharing it. As a potential game, this game enjoys
some very appealing properties, including the existence of a pure strategy Nash
equilibrium (NE) and that every improvement path is finite and leads to such a
NE (also called the finite improvement property or FIP). While it's tempting to
use this model to study spectrum sharing, it does not capture the spatial reuse
feature of wireless communication, where resources (interpreted as channels)
may be reused without increasing congestion provided that users are located far
away from each other. This motivates us to study an extended form of the
congestion game where a user's payoff for using a resource is a function of the
number of its interfering users sharing it. This naturally results in a spatial
congestion game (SCG), where users are placed over a network (or a conflict
graph). We study fundamental properties of a spatial congestion game; in
particular, we seek to answer under what conditions this game possesses the
finite improvement property or a Nash equilibrium. We also discuss the
implications of these results when applied to wireless spectrum sharing.


On the Combinatorial Multi-Armed Bandit Problem with Markovian Rewards

  We consider a combinatorial generalization of the classical multi-armed
bandit problem that is defined as follows. There is a given bipartite graph of
$M$ users and $N \geq M$ resources. For each user-resource pair $(i,j)$, there
is an associated state that evolves as an aperiodic irreducible finite-state
Markov chain with unknown parameters, with transitions occurring each time the
particular user $i$ is allocated resource $j$. The user $i$ receives a reward
that depends on the corresponding state each time it is allocated the resource
$j$. The system objective is to learn the best matching of users to resources
so that the long-term sum of the rewards received by all users is maximized.
This corresponds to minimizing regret, defined here as the gap between the
expected total reward that can be obtained by the best-possible static matching
and the expected total reward that can be achieved by a given algorithm. We
present a polynomial-storage and polynomial-complexity-per-step
matching-learning algorithm for this problem. We show that this algorithm can
achieve a regret that is uniformly arbitrarily close to logarithmic in time and
polynomial in the number of users and resources. This formulation is broadly
applicable to scheduling and switching problems in networks and significantly
extends prior results in the area.


Perceptions and Truth: A Mechanism Design Approach to Crowd-Sourcing
  Reputation

  We consider a distributed multi-user system where individual entities possess
observations or perceptions of one another, while the truth is only known to
themselves, and they might have an interest in withholding or distorting the
truth. We ask the question whether it is possible for the system as a whole to
arrive at the correct perceptions or assessment of all users, referred to as
their reputation, by encouraging or incentivizing the users to participate in a
collective effort without violating private information and self-interest. Two
specific applications, online shopping and network reputation, are provided to
motivate our study and interpret the results. In this paper we investigate this
problem using a mechanism design theoretic approach. We introduce a number of
utility models representing users' strategic behavior, each consisting of one
or both of a truth element and an image element, reflecting the user's desire
to obtain an accurate view of the other and an inflated image of itself. For
each model, we either design a mechanism that achieves the optimal performance
(solution to the corresponding centralized problem), or present individually
rational sub-optimal solutions. In the latter case, we demonstrate that even
when the centralized solution is not achievable, by using a simple
punish-reward mechanism, not only a user has the incentive to participate and
provide information, but also that this information can improve the system
performance.


Profit Incentive In A Secondary Spectrum Market: A Contract Design
  Approach

  In this paper we formulate a contract design problem where a primary license
holder wishes to profit from its excess spectrum capacity by selling it to
potential secondary users/buyers. It needs to determine how to optimally price
the excess spectrum so as to maximize its profit, knowing that this excess
capacity is stochastic in nature, does not come with exclusive access, and
cannot provide deterministic service guarantees to a buyer. At the same time,
buyers are of different {\em types}, characterized by different communication
needs, tolerance for the channel uncertainty, and so on, all of which a buyer's
private information. The license holder must then try to design different
contracts catered to different types of buyers in order to maximize its profit.
We address this problem by adopting as a reference a traditional spectrum
market where the buyer can purchase exclusive access with fixed/deterministic
guarantees. We fully characterize the optimal solution in the cases where there
is a single buyer type, and when multiple types of buyers share the same, known
channel condition as a result of the primary user activity. In the most general
case we construct an algorithm that generates a set of contracts in a
computationally efficient manner, and show that this set is optimal when the
buyer types satisfy a monotonicity condition.


Networked Computing in Wireless Sensor Networks for Structural Health
  Monitoring

  This paper studies the problem of distributed computation over a network of
wireless sensors. While this problem applies to many emerging applications, to
keep our discussion concrete we will focus on sensor networks used for
structural health monitoring. Within this context, the heaviest computation is
to determine the singular value decomposition (SVD) to extract mode shapes
(eigenvectors) of a structure. Compared to collecting raw vibration data and
performing SVD at a central location, computing SVD within the network can
result in significantly lower energy consumption and delay. Using recent
results on decomposing SVD, a well-known centralized operation, into
components, we seek to determine a near-optimal communication structure that
enables the distribution of this computation and the reassembly of the final
results, with the objective of minimizing energy consumption subject to a
computational delay constraint. We show that this reduces to a generalized
clustering problem; a cluster forms a unit on which a component of the overall
computation is performed. We establish that this problem is NP-hard. By
relaxing the delay constraint, we derive a lower bound to this problem. We then
propose an integer linear program (ILP) to solve the constrained problem
exactly as well as an approximate algorithm with a proven approximation ratio.
We further present a distributed version of the approximate algorithm. We
present both simulation and experimentation results to demonstrate the
effectiveness of these algorithms.


A Reputation-Based Contract for Repeated Crowdsensing with Costly
  Verification

  We study a setup in which a system operator hires a sensor to exert costly
effort to collect accurate measurements of a value of interest over time. At
each time, the sensor is asked to report his observation to the operator, and
is compensated based on the accuracy of this observation. Since both the effort
and observation are private information for the sensor, a naive payment scheme
which compensates the sensor based only on his self-reported values will lead
to both shirking and falsification of outcomes by the sensor. We consider the
problem of designing an appropriate compensation scheme to incentivize the
sensor to at once exert costly effort and truthfully reveal the resulting
observation.
  To this end, we formulate the problem as a repeated game and propose a
compensation scheme that employs stochastic verification by the operator
coupled with a system of assigning reputation to the sensor. In particular, our
proposed payment scheme compensates the sensor based on both the effort in the
current period as well as the history of past behavior. We show that by using
past behavior in determining present payments, the operator can both
incentivize higher effort as well as more frequent truthtelling by the sensor
and decrease the required verification frequency.


Generating Adversarial Examples with Adversarial Networks

  Deep neural networks (DNNs) have been found to be vulnerable to adversarial
examples resulting from adding small-magnitude perturbations to inputs. Such
adversarial examples can mislead DNNs to produce adversary-selected results.
Different attack strategies have been proposed to generate adversarial
examples, but how to produce them with high perceptual quality and more
efficiently requires more research efforts. In this paper, we propose AdvGAN to
generate adversarial examples with generative adversarial networks (GANs),
which can learn and approximate the distribution of original instances. For
AdvGAN, once the generator is trained, it can generate adversarial
perturbations efficiently for any instance, so as to potentially accelerate
adversarial training as defenses. We apply AdvGAN in both semi-whitebox and
black-box attack settings. In semi-whitebox attacks, there is no need to access
the original target model after the generator is trained, in contrast to
traditional white-box attacks. In black-box attacks, we dynamically train a
distilled model for the black-box model and optimize the generator accordingly.
Adversarial examples generated by AdvGAN on different target models have high
attack success rate under state-of-the-art defenses compared to other attacks.
Our attack has placed the first with 92.76% accuracy on a public MNIST
black-box attack challenge.


Spatially Transformed Adversarial Examples

  Recent studies show that widely used deep neural networks (DNNs) are
vulnerable to carefully crafted adversarial examples. Many advanced algorithms
have been proposed to generate adversarial examples by leveraging the
$\mathcal{L}_p$ distance for penalizing perturbations. Researchers have
explored different defense methods to defend against such adversarial attacks.
While the effectiveness of $\mathcal{L}_p$ distance as a metric of perceptual
quality remains an active research area, in this paper we will instead focus on
a different type of perturbation, namely spatial transformation, as opposed to
manipulating the pixel values directly as in prior works. Perturbations
generated through spatial transformation could result in large $\mathcal{L}_p$
distance measures, but our extensive experiments show that such spatially
transformed adversarial examples are perceptually realistic and more difficult
to defend against with existing defense systems. This potentially provides a
new direction in adversarial example generation and the design of corresponding
defenses. We visualize the spatial transformation based perturbation for
different examples and show that our technique can produce realistic
adversarial examples with smooth image deformation. Finally, we visualize the
attention of deep networks with different types of adversarial examples to
better understand how these examples are interpreted.


Realistic Adversarial Examples in 3D Meshes

  Highly expressive models such as deep neural networks (DNNs) have been widely
applied to various applications and achieved increasing success. However,
recent studies show that such machine learning models appear to be vulnerable
against adversarial examples. So far adversarial examples have been heavily
explored for 2D images, while few works have conducted to understand
vulnerabilities of 3D objects which exist in real world, where 3D objects are
projected to 2D domains by photo taking for different learning (recognition)
tasks. In this paper, we consider adversarial behaviors in practical scenarios
by manipulating the shape and texture of a given 3D mesh representation of an
object. Our goal is to project the optimized "adversarial meshes" to 2D with a
photorealistic renderer, and still able to mislead different machine learning
models. Extensive experiments show that by generating unnoticeable 3D
adversarial perturbation on shape or texture for a 3D mesh, the corresponding
projected 2D instance can either lead classifiers to misclassify the victim
object as an arbitrary malicious target, or hide any target object within the
scene from object detectors. We conduct human studies to show that our
optimized adversarial 3D perturbation is highly unnoticeable for human vision
systems. In addition to the subtle perturbation for a given 3D mesh, we also
propose to synthesize a realistic 3D mesh and put in a scene mimicking similar
rendering conditions and therefore attack different machine learning models.
In-depth analysis of transferability among various 3D renderers and vulnerable
regions of meshes are provided to help better understand adversarial behaviors
in real-world.


An Online Approach to Dynamic Channel Access and Transmission Scheduling

  Making judicious channel access and transmission scheduling decisions is
essential for improving performance as well as energy and spectral efficiency
in multichannel wireless systems. This problem has been a subject of extensive
study in the past decade, and the resulting dynamic and opportunistic channel
access schemes can bring potentially significant improvement over traditional
schemes. However, a common and severe limitation of these dynamic schemes is
that they almost always require some form of a priori knowledge of the channel
statistics. A natural remedy is a learning framework, which has also been
extensively studied in the same context, but a typical learning algorithm in
this literature seeks only the best static policy, with performance measured by
weak regret, rather than learning a good dynamic channel access policy. There
is thus a clear disconnect between what an optimal channel access policy can
achieve with known channel statistics that actively exploits temporal, spatial
and spectral diversity, and what a typical existing learning algorithm aims
for, which is the static use of a single channel devoid of diversity gain. In
this paper we bridge this gap by designing learning algorithms that track known
optimal or sub-optimal dynamic channel access and transmission scheduling
policies, thereby yielding performance measured by a form of strong regret, the
accumulated difference between the reward returned by an optimal solution when
a priori information is available and that by our online algorithm. We do so in
the context of two specific algorithms that appeared in [1] and [2],
respectively, the former for a multiuser single-channel setting and the latter
for a single-user multichannel setting. In both cases we show that our
algorithms achieve sub-linear regret uniform in time and outperforms the
standard weak-regret learning algorithms.


Sufficient Conditions on the Optimality of Myopic Sensing in
  Opportunistic Channel Access: A Unifying Framework

  This paper considers a widely studied stochastic control problem arising from
opportunistic spectrum access (OSA) in a multi-channel system, with the goal of
providing a unifying analytical framework whereby a number of prior results may
be viewed as special cases. Specifically, we consider a single wireless
transceiver/user with access to $N$ channels, each modeled as an iid
discrete-time two-state Markov chain. In each time step the user is allowed to
sense $k\leq N$ channels, and subsequently use up to $m\leq k$ channels out of
those sensed to be available. Channel sensing is assumed to be perfect, and for
each channel use in each time step the user gets a unit reward. The user's
objective is to maximize its total discounted or average reward over a finite
or infinite horizon. This problem has previously been studied in various
special cases including $k=1$ and $m=k\leq N$, often cast as a restless bandit
problem, with optimality results derived for a myopic policy that seeks to
maximize the immediate one-step reward when the two-state Markov chain model is
positively correlated. In this paper we study the general problem with $1\leq
m\leq k\leq N$, and derive sufficient conditions under which the myopic policy
is optimal for the finite and infinite horizon reward criteria, respectively.
It is shown that these results reduce to those derived in prior studies under
the corresponding special cases, and thus may be viewed as a set of unifying
optimality conditions. Numerical examples are also presented to highlight how
and why an optimal policy may deviate from the otherwise-optimal myopic sensing
given additional exploration opportunities, i.e., when $m<k$.


Energy-Efficient Transmission Scheduling with Strict Underflow
  Constraints

  We consider a single source transmitting data to one or more receivers/users
over a shared wireless channel. Due to random fading, the wireless channel
conditions vary with time and from user to user. Each user has a buffer to
store received packets before they are drained. At each time step, the source
determines how much power to use for transmission to each user. The source's
objective is to allocate power in a manner that minimizes an expected cost
measure, while satisfying strict buffer underflow constraints and a total power
constraint in each slot. The expected cost measure is composed of costs
associated with power consumption from transmission and packet holding costs.
The primary application motivating this problem is wireless media streaming.
For this application, the buffer underflow constraints prevent the user buffers
from emptying, so as to maintain playout quality. In the case of a single user
with linear power-rate curves, we show that a modified base-stock policy is
optimal under the finite horizon, infinite horizon discounted, and infinite
horizon average expected cost criteria. For a single user with piecewise-linear
convex power-rate curves, we show that a finite generalized base-stock policy
is optimal under all three expected cost criteria. We also present the
sequences of critical numbers that complete the characterization of the optimal
control laws in each of these cases when some additional technical conditions
are satisfied. We then analyze the structure of the optimal policy for the case
of two users. We conclude with a discussion of methods to identify
implementable near-optimal policies for the most general case of M users.


Online Learning in Opportunistic Spectrum Access: A Restless Bandit
  Approach

  We consider an opportunistic spectrum access (OSA) problem where the
time-varying condition of each channel (e.g., as a result of random fading or
certain primary users' activities) is modeled as an arbitrary finite-state
Markov chain. At each instance of time, a (secondary) user probes a channel and
collects a certain reward as a function of the state of the channel (e.g., good
channel condition results in higher data rate for the user). Each channel has
potentially different state space and statistics, both unknown to the user, who
tries to learn which one is the best as it goes and maximizes its usage of the
best channel. The objective is to construct a good online learning algorithm so
as to minimize the difference between the user's performance in total rewards
and that of using the best channel (on average) had it known which one is the
best from a priori knowledge of the channel statistics (also known as the
regret). This is a classic exploration and exploitation problem and results
abound when the reward processes are assumed to be iid. Compared to prior work,
the biggest difference is that in our case the reward process is assumed to be
Markovian, of which iid is a special case. In addition, the reward processes
are restless in that the channel conditions will continue to evolve independent
of the user's actions. This leads to a restless bandit problem, for which there
exists little result on either algorithms or performance bounds in this
learning context to the best of our knowledge. In this paper we introduce an
algorithm that utilizes regenerative cycles of a Markov chain and computes a
sample-mean based index policy, and show that under mild conditions on the
state transition probabilities of the Markov chains this algorithm achieves
logarithmic regret uniformly over time, and that this regret bound is also
optimal.


Incentives, Quality, and Risks: A Look Into the NSF Proposal Review
  Pilot

  The National Science Foundation (NSF) will be experimenting with a new
distributed approach to reviewing proposals, whereby a group of principal
investigators (PIs) or proposers in a subfield act as reviewers for the
proposals submitted by the same set of PIs. To encourage honesty, PIs' chances
for getting funded are tied to the quality of their reviews (with respect to
the reviews provided by the entire group), in addition to the quality of their
proposals. Intuitively, this approach can more fairly distribute the review
workload, discourage frivolous proposal submission, and encourage high quality
reviews. On the other hand, this method has already raised concerns about the
integrity of the process and the possibility of strategic manipulation. In this
paper, we take a closer look at three specific issues in an attempt to gain a
better understanding of the strengths and limitations of the new process beyond
first impressions and anecdotal evidence. We start by considering the benefits
and drawbacks of bundling the quality of PIs' reviews with the scientific merit
of their proposals. We then consider the issue of collusion and favoritism.
Finally, we examine whether the new process puts controversial proposals at a
disadvantage. We conclude that some benefits of using review quality as an
incentive mechanism may outweigh its drawbacks. On the other hand, even a
coalition of two PIs can cause significant harm to the process, as the built-in
incentives are not strong enough to deter collusion. While we also confirm the
common suspicion that the process is skewed toward non-controversial proposals,
the more unexpected finding is that among equally controversial proposals,
those of lower quality get a leg up through this process. Thus the process not
only favors non-controversial proposals, but in some sense, mediocrity. We also
discuss possible ways to improve this review process.


