On the Integrality Gap of the Directed-Component Relaxation for Steiner
  Tree

  In this note, we show that the integrality gap of the $k$-Directed-Component-
Relaxation($k$-DCR) LP for the Steiner tree problem, introduced by Byrka,
Grandoni, Rothvob and Sanita (STOC 2010), is at most $\ln(4)<1.39$. The proof
is constructive: we can efficiently find a Steiner tree whose cost is at most
$\ln(4)$ times the cost of the optimal fractional $k$-restricted Steiner tree
given by the $k$-DCR LP.


Online Weighted Degree-Bounded Steiner Networks via Novel Online Mixed
  Packing/Covering

  We design the first online algorithm with poly-logarithmic competitive ratio
for the edge-weighted degree-bounded Steiner forest(EW-DB-SF) problem and its
generalized variant. We obtain our result by demonstrating a new generic
approach for solving mixed packing/covering integer programs in the online
paradigm. In EW-DB-SF we are given an edge-weighted graph with a degree bound
for every vertex. Given a root vertex in advance we receive a sequence of
terminal vertices in an online manner. Upon the arrival of a terminal we need
to augment our solution subgraph to connect the new terminal to the root. The
goal is to minimize the total weight of the solution while respecting the
degree bounds on the vertices. In the offline setting edge-weighted
degree-bounded Steiner tree (EW-DB-ST) and its many variations have been
extensively studied since early eighties. Unfortunately the recent advancements
in the online network design problems are inherently difficult to adapt for
degree-bounded problems. In contrast in this paper we obtain our result by
using structural properties of the optimal solution, and reducing the EW-DB-SF
problem to an exponential-size mixed packing/covering integer program in which
every variable appears only once in covering constraints. We then design a
generic integral algorithm for solving this restricted family of IPs. We
demonstrate a new technique for solving mixed packing/covering integer
programs. Define the covering frequency k of a program as the maximum number of
covering constraints in which a variable can participate. Let m denote the
number of packing constraints. We design an online deterministic integral
algorithm with competitive ratio of O(k log m) for the mixed packing/covering
integer programs. We believe this technique can be used as an interesting
alternative for the standard primal-dual techniques in solving online problems.


