Bayesian Nonexhaustive Learning for Online Discovery and Modeling of  Emerging Classes

  We present a framework for online inference in the presence of anonexhaustively defined set of classes that incorporates supervisedclassification with class discovery and modeling. A Dirichlet process prior(DPP) model defined over class distributions ensures that both known andunknown class distributions originate according to a common base distribution.In an attempt to automatically discover potentially interesting classformations, the prior model is coupled with a suitably chosen data model, andsequential Monte Carlo sampling is used to perform online inference. Ourresearch is driven by a biodetection application, where a new class of pathogenmay suddenly appear, and the rapid increase in the number of samplesoriginating from this class indicates the onset of an outbreak.

Bayesian Non-Exhaustive Classification A Case Study: Online Name  Disambiguation using Temporal Record Streams

  The name entity disambiguation task aims to partition the records of multiplereal-life persons so that each partition contains records pertaining to aunique person. Most of the existing solutions for this task operate in a batchmode, where all records to be disambiguated are initially available to thealgorithm. However, more realistic settings require that the namedisambiguation task be performed in an online fashion, in addition to, beingable to identify records of new ambiguous entities having no preexistingrecords. In this work, we propose a Bayesian non-exhaustive classificationframework for solving online name disambiguation task. Our proposed method usesa Dirichlet process prior with a Normal * Normal * Inverse Wishart data modelwhich enables identification of new ambiguous entities who have no records inthe training data. For online classification, we use one sweep Gibbs samplerwhich is very efficient and effective. As a case study we considerbibliographic data in a temporal stream format and disambiguate authors bypartitioning their papers into homogeneous groups. Our experimental resultsdemonstrate that the proposed method is better than existing methods forperforming online name disambiguation task.

Bayesian Non-Exhaustive Classification for Active Online Name  Disambiguation

  The name disambiguation task partitions a collection of records pertaining toa given name, such that there is a one-to-one correspondence between thepartitions and a group of people, all sharing that given name. Most existingsolutions for this task are proposed for static data. However, more realisticscenarios stipulate emergence of records in a streaming fashion where recordsmay belong to known as well as unknown persons all sharing the same name. Thisrequires a flexible name disambiguation algorithm that can not only classifyrecords of known persons represented in the train- ing data by their existingrecords but can also identify records of new ambiguous persons with no existingrecords included in the initial training dataset. Toward achieving thisobjective, in this paper we propose a Bayesian non-exhaustive classificationframe- work for solving online name disambiguation. In particular, we present aDirichlet Process Gaussian Mixture Model (DPGMM) as a core engine for onlinename disambiguation task. Meanwhile, two online inference algorithms, namelyone-pass Gibbs sampler and Sequential Importance Sampling with Resampling (alsoknown as particle filtering), are proposed to simultaneously perform onlineclassification and new class discovery. As a case study we considerbibliographic data in a temporal stream format and disambiguate authors bypartitioning their papers into homogeneous groups.Our experimental resultsdemonstrate that the proposed method is significantly better than existingmethods for performing online name disambiguation task. We also propose aninteractive version of our online name disambiguation method designed toleverage user feedback to improve prediction accuracy.

