The Steep Road to Happily Ever After: An Analysis of Current Visual
  Storytelling Models

  Visual storytelling is an intriguing and complex task that only recently
entered the research arena. In this work, we survey relevant work to date, and
conduct a thorough error analysis of three very recent approaches to visual
storytelling. We categorize and provide examples of common types of errors, and
identify key shortcomings in current work. Finally, we make recommendations for
addressing these limitations in the future.


#SarcasmDetection is soooo general! Towards a Domain-Independent
  Approach for Detecting Sarcasm

  Automatic sarcasm detection methods have traditionally been designed for
maximum performance on a specific domain. This poses challenges for those
wishing to transfer those approaches to other existing or novel domains, which
may be typified by very different language characteristics. We develop a
general set of features and evaluate it under different training scenarios
utilizing in-domain and/or out-of-domain training data. The best-performing
scenario, training on both while employing a domain adaptation step, achieves
an F1 of 0.780, which is well above baseline F1-measures of 0.515 and 0.345. We
also show that the approach outperforms the best results from prior work on the
same target domain.


AI Meets Austen: Towards Human-Robot Discussions of Literary Metaphor

  Artificial intelligence is revolutionizing formal education, fueled by
innovations in learning assessment, content generation, and instructional
delivery. Informal, lifelong learning settings have been the subject of less
attention. We provide a proof-of-concept for an embodied book discussion
companion, designed to stimulate conversations with readers about particularly
creative metaphors in fiction literature. We collect ratings from 26
participants, each of whom discuss Jane Austen's "Pride and Prejudice" with the
robot across one or more sessions, and find that participants rate their
interactions highly. This suggests that companion robots could be an
interesting entryway for the promotion of lifelong learning and cognitive
exercise in future applications.


