Overview: Generalizations of Multi-Agent Path Finding to Real-World
  Scenarios

  Multi-agent path finding (MAPF) is well-studied in artificial intelligence,
robotics, theoretical computer science and operations research. We discuss
issues that arise when generalizing MAPF methods to real-world scenarios and
four research directions that address them. We emphasize the importance of
addressing these issues as opposed to developing faster methods for the
standard formulation of the MAPF problem.


Downwash-Aware Trajectory Planning for Large Quadrotor Teams

  We describe a method for formation-change trajectory planning for large
quadrotor teams in obstacle-rich environments. Our method decomposes the
planning problem into two stages: a discrete planner operating on a graph
representation of the workspace, and a continuous refinement that converts the
non-smooth graph plan into a set of C^k-continuous trajectories, locally
optimizing an integral-squared-derivative cost. We account for the downwash
effect, allowing safe flight in dense formations. We demonstrate the
computational efficiency in simulation with up to 200 robots and the physical
plausibility with an experiment with 32 nano-quadrotors. Our approach can
compute safe and smooth trajectories for hundreds of quadrotors in dense
environments with obstacles in a few minutes.


Path Planning with Kinematic Constraints for Robot Groups

  Path planning for multiple robots is well studied in the AI and robotics
communities. For a given discretized environment, robots need to find
collision-free paths to a set of specified goal locations. Robots can be fully
anonymous, non-anonymous, or organized in groups. Although powerful solvers for
this abstract problem exist, they make simplifying assumptions by ignoring
kinematic constraints, making it difficult to use the resulting plans on actual
robots. In this paper, we present a solution which takes kinematic constraints,
such as maximum velocities, into account, while guaranteeing a user-specified
minimum safety distance between robots. We demonstrate our approach in
simulation and on real robots in 2D and 3D environments.


Multiplayer Games for Learning Multirobot Coordination Algorithms

  Humans have an impressive ability to solve complex coordination problems in a
fully distributed manner. This ability, if learned as a set of distributed
multirobot coordination strategies, can enable programming large groups of
robots to collaborate towards complex coordination objectives in a way similar
to humans. Such strategies would offer robustness, adaptability,
fault-tolerance, and, importantly, distributed decision-making. To that end, we
have designed a networked gaming platform to investigate human group behavior,
specifically in solving complex collaborative coordinated tasks. Through this
platform, we are able to limit the communication, sensing, and actuation
capabilities provided to the players. With the aim of learning coordination
algorithms for robots in mind, we define these capabilities to mimic those of a
simple ground robot.


Overview: A Hierarchical Framework for Plan Generation and Execution in
  Multi-Robot Systems

  The authors present an overview of a hierarchical framework for coordinating
task- and motion-level operations in multirobot systems. Their framework is
based on the idea of using simple temporal networks to simultaneously reason
about precedence/causal constraints required for task-level coordination and
simple temporal constraints required to take some kinematic constraints of
robots into account. In the plan-generation phase, the framework provides a
computationally scalable method for generating plans that achieve high-level
tasks for groups of robots and take some of their kinematic constraints into
account. In the plan-execution phase, the framework provides a method for
absorbing an imperfect plan execution to avoid time-consuming re-planning in
many cases. The authors use the multirobot path-planning problem as a case
study to present the key ideas behind their framework for the long-term
autonomy of multirobot systems.


Sim-to-(Multi)-Real: Transfer of Low-Level Robust Control Policies to
  Multiple Quadrotors

  Quadrotor stabilizing controllers often require careful, model-specific
tuning for safe operation. We use reinforcement learning to train policies in
simulation that transfer remarkably well to multiple different physical
quadrotors. Our policies are low-level, i.e., we map the rotorcrafts' state
directly to the motor outputs. The trained control policies are very robust to
external disturbances and can withstand harsh initial conditions such as
throws. We show how different training methodologies (change of the cost
function, modeling of noise, use of domain randomization) might affect flight
performance. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that
demonstrates that a simple neural network can learn a robust stabilizing
low-level quadrotor controller without the use of a stabilizing PD controller;
as well as the first work that analyses the transfer capability of a single
policy to multiple quadrotors.


ROMANO: A Novel Overlay Lightweight Communication Protocol for Unified
  Control and Sensing of a Network of Robots

  We present the Robotic Overlay coMmunicAtioN prOtocol (ROMANO), a
lightweight, application layer overlay communication protocol for a unified
sensing and control abstraction of a network of heterogeneous robots mainly
consisting of low power, low-compute-capable robots. ROMANO is built to work in
conjunction with the well-known MQ Telemetry Transport for Sensor Nodes
(MQTT-SN) protocol, a lightweight publish-subscribe communication protocol for
the Internet of Things and makes use its concept of "topics" to designate the
addition and deletion of communication endpoints by changing the subscriptions
of topics at each device. We also develop a portable implementation of ROMANO
for low power IEEE 802.15.4 (Zigbee) radios and deployed it on a small testbed
of commercially available, low-power, and low-compute-capable robots called
Pololu 3pi robots. Based on a thorough analysis of the protocol on the real
testbed, as a measure of throughput, we demonstrate that ROMANO can guarantee
more than a $99.5\%$ message delivery ratio for a message generation rate up to
200 messages per second. The single hop delays in ROMANO are as low as 20ms
with linear dependency on the number of robots connected. These delay numbers
concur with typical delays in 802.15.4 networks and suggest that ROMANO does
not introduce additional delays. Lastly, we implement four different
multi-robot applications to demonstrate the scalability, adaptability, ease of
integration, and reliability of ROMANO.


Persistent Monitoring of Stochastic Spatio-temporal Phenomena with a
  Small Team of Robots

  This paper presents a solution for persistent monitoring of real-world
stochastic phenomena, where the underlying covariance structure changes sharply
across time, using a small number of mobile robot sensors. We propose an
adaptive solution for the problem where stochastic real-world dynamics are
modeled as a Gaussian Process (GP). The belief on the underlying covariance
structure is learned from recently observed dynamics as a Gaussian Mixture (GM)
in the low-dimensional hyper-parameters space of the GP and adapted across time
using Sequential Monte Carlo methods. Each robot samples a belief point from
the GM and locally optimizes a set of informative regions by greedy
maximization of the submodular entropy function. The key contributions of this
paper are threefold: adapting the belief on the covariance using Markov Chain
Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampling such that particles survive even under sharp
covariance changes across time; exploiting the belief to transform the problem
of entropy maximization into a decentralized one; and developing an
approximation algorithm to maximize entropy on a set of informative regions in
the continuous space. We illustrate the application of the proposed solution
through extensive simulations using an artificial dataset and multiple real
datasets from fixed sensor deployments, and compare it to three competing
state-of-the-art approaches.


Lifelong Path Planning with Kinematic Constraints for Multi-Agent Pickup
  and Delivery

  The Multi-Agent Pickup and Delivery (MAPD) problem models applications where
a large number of agents attend to a stream of incoming pickup-and-delivery
tasks. Token Passing (TP) is a recent MAPD algorithm that is efficient and
effective. We make TP even more efficient and effective by using a novel
combinatorial search algorithm, called Safe Interval Path Planning with
Reservation Table (SIPPwRT), for single-agent path planning. SIPPwRT uses an
advanced data structure that allows for fast updates and lookups of the current
paths of all agents in an online setting. The resulting MAPD algorithm
TP-SIPPwRT takes kinematic constraints of real robots into account directly
during planning, computes continuous agent movements with given velocities that
work on non-holonomic robots rather than discrete agent movements with uniform
velocity, and is complete for well-formed MAPD instances. We demonstrate its
benefits for automated warehouses using both an agent simulator and a standard
robot simulator. For example, we demonstrate that it can compute paths for
hundreds of agents and thousands of tasks in seconds and is more efficient and
effective than existing MAPD algorithms that use a post-processing step to
adapt their paths to continuous agent movements with given velocities.


