A study of coherent and incoherent resonances in high intensity beams
  using a linear Paul trap

  In this paper we present a quantitative measurement of the change in
frequency (tune) with intensity of four transverse resonances in a high
intensity Gaussian beam. Due to the non-linear space charge forces present in
high intensity beams, particle motion cannot be analytically described. Instead
we use the Simulator of Particle Orbit Dynamics (S-POD) and the Intense Beam
Experiment (IBEX), two linear Paul traps, to experimentally replicate the
system. In high intensity beams a coherent resonant response to both space
charge and external field driven perturbations is possible, these coherent
resonances are excited at a tune that differs by a factor $C_{m}$ from that of
the incoherent resonance. By increasing the number of ions stored in the linear
Paul trap and studying the location of four different resonances we extract
provisional values describing the change in tune of the resonance with
intensity. These values are then compared to the $C_{m}$ factors for coherent
resonances. We find that the $C_{m}$ factors do not accurately predict the
location of resonances in high intensity Gaussian beams. Further insight into
the experiment is gained through simulation using Warp, a particle-in-cell
code.


Reconstruction of Initial Beam Conditions at the Exit of the DARHT II
  Accelerator

  We consider a technique to determine the initial beam conditions of the DARHT
II Accelerator by measuring the beam size under three different magnetic
transport settings. This may be time gated to resolve the parameters as a
function of time within the 2000 nsec pulse. This technique leads to three
equations in three unknowns with solution giving the accelerator exit beam
radius, tilt and emittance. We find that systematic errors cancel and so are
not a problem in unfolding the initial beam conditions. Random uncorrelated
shot to shot errors can be managed by one of three strategies: 1) make the
transport system optically de-magnifying; 2) average over many individual
shots; or 3) make the random uncorrelated shot to shot errors sufficiently
small. The high power of the DARHT II beam requires that the beam transport
system leading to a radius measuring apparatus be optically magnifying. This
means that the shot to shot random errors must either be made small (less than
about 1%) or that we average each of the three beam radius determinations over
many individual shots.


Laser cooling with a single laser beam and a planar diffractor

  A planar triplet of diffraction gratings is used to transform a single laser
beam into a four-beam tetrahedral magneto-optical trap. This `flat' pyramid
diffractor geometry is ideal for future microfabrication. We demonstrate the
technique by trapping and subsequently sub-Doppler cooling 87Rb atoms to
30microKelvin.


Cyclotrons for high-intensity beams

  This paper reviews the important physical and technological aspects of
cyclotrons for the acceleration of high-intensity beams. Special emphasis is
given to the discussion of beam loss mechanisms and extraction schemes.


Effect of Beam-Plasma Instabilities on Accretion Disk Flares

  We show that a certain class of flare models for variability from accretion
disk coronae are subject to beam-plasma instabilities. These instabilities can
prevent significant direct acceleration and greatly reduce the variable X-ray
emission argued to arise via inverse Compton scattering involving relativistic
electrons in beams and soft photons from the disk.


Trapping of charged particles by Bessel beams

  There exist two well established methods to trap charged particles: the
Penning trap and the Paul trap. The subject of this article is to present a
third mechanism for trapping charged particles - trapping by beams of
electromagnetic radiation. The essential role is played by the electric field
configuration in the plane perpendicular to the beam axis (for nonrelativistic
electrons, the magnetic field is less important). Particles are confined to the
vicinity of the minimum-energy points. In particular, for beams of
electromagnetic radiation carrying orbital angular momentum such points lie on
the beam axis.


Dose Delivery Verification

  This paper focuses on some dosimetry aspects of proton therapy and pencil
beam scanning based on the experience accumulated at Paul Scherrer
Institute(PSI). The basic formalism for absolute dosimetry in proton therapy is
outlined and the two main techniques and equipment to perform the primary beam
monitor chamber calibration are presented. Depth-dose curve and lateral beam
width measurements are exposed and discussed in detail, with particular
attention to the size of the ionization chamber and the characteristic of
scintillating-CCD dosimetry systems, respectively. It is also explained how the
angular-spatial distribution of individual pencil beams can be determined in
practice. The equipment and the techniques for performing
regularmachine-specific quality checks are focused on (i)output constancy
checks, (ii)pencil beam position and size checks and (iii)beam energy checks.
Finally, patient-specific verification is addressed.


Neutrino oscillations in structured matter

  A layered material structure in a monochromatic neutrino beam produces
interference effects that could be used for the measurement of features of the
neutrino mass matrix. The phenomenon would be most useful at high energies.


Longitudinal Losses Due to Breathing Mode Excitation in Radiofrequency
  Linear Accelerators

  Transverse breathing mode oscillations in a particle beam can couple energy
into longitudinal oscillations in a bunch of finite length and cause
significant losses. We develop a model that illustrates this effect and explore
the dependence on mismatch size, space-charge tune depression, longitudinal
focusing strength, bunch length, and RF bucket length.


Dosimetric and Biologic Differences in Flattened and
  Flattening-Filter-Free Beam Treatment Plans

  Purpose: To quantitatively compare the dosimetric and biologic differences in
treatment plans from flattened and flattening-filter-free (FFF) beam for three
anatomic cancer sites. Methods and Materials: Treatment plans with static
intensity-modulated radiotherapy beams and volumetric modulated arc therapy
beams were generated for 13 patients for both the flattened beam and the FFF
beam of the TrueBeam system. Beam energies of 6 MV and 10 MV were chosen for
planning. A total of 104 treatment plans were generated in 13 patients. In
order to analyze the biological effectiveness of treatment plans, dose volume
histograms (DVH) were utilized. Flattened and FFF beam plans are quantitatively
compared. Results: In head and neck cases, for VMAT plans, dose reduction in
the FFF beam plans compared to the flattened beam in left cochlea, right
submandibular gland and right parotid gland reached up to 2.36 Gy, 1.21 Gy and
1.45 Gy, respectively. Similarly, for static IMRT plans, the dose reduction of
the FFF beam plans compared to the flattened beam plans for the same organs
reached up to 0.34 Gy, 1.36 Gy and 1.46 Gy, respectively. Overall, for head and
neck, the FFF beam plans achieved mean dose reduction of up to 5%, 7% and 9%,
respectively for above organs at risk. For lung and prostate cases, the FFF
beams provided lower or comparable NTCP values to organ-at-risk (OAR) compared
to the flattened beam for all plans. Conclusions: In general, we observed
treatment plans utilizing FFF beams can improve dose sparing to OARs without
compromising the target coverage. Significant dose sparing effect is obtained
for head and neck cancer cases, especially for the cases with relatively large
field sizes (about 16x20 cm^2). For lung and prostate cases, compared to the
flattened beam, the FFF beam based treatment plans provide lower or comparable
dose to most OARs.


The high-intensity hyperon beam at CERN

  A high-intensity hyperon beam was constructed at CERN to deliver Sigma- to
experiment WA89 at the Omega facility and operated from 1989 to 1994. The setup
allowed rapid changeover between hyperon and conventional hadron beam
configurations. The beam provided a Sigma-flux of 1.4 x 10^5 per burst at mean
momenta between 330 and 345 Gev/c, produced by about 3 x 10^10 protons of 450
GeV/c . At the experiment target the beam had a Sigma-/pi- ratio close to 0.4
and a size of 1.6 x 3.7 cm^2. The beam particle trajectories and their momenta
were measured with a scintillating fibre hodoscope in the beam channel and a
silicon microstrip detector at the exit of the channel. A fast transition
radiation detector was used to identify the pion component of the beam.


Manipulation of a continuous beam of molecules by light pulses

  We experimentally observe the action of multiple light pulses on the
transverse motion of a continuous beam of fullerenes. The light potential is
generated by non-resonant ultra-short laser pulses in perpendicular spatial
overlap with the molecule beam. We observe a small but clear enhancement of the
number of molecules in the center fraction of the molecular beam. Relatively
low light intensity and short laser pulse duration prevent the molecule from
fragmentation and ionization. Experimental results are confirmed by Monte Carlo
trajectory simulations.


Feedback control of optical beam spatial profiles using thermal lensing

  A method for active control of the spatial profile of a laser beam using
adaptive thermal lensing is described. A segmented electrical heater was used
to generate thermal gradients across a transmissive optical element, resulting
in a controllable thermal lens. The segmented heater also allows the generation
of cylindrical lenses, and provides the capability to steer the beam in both
horizontal and vertical planes. Using this device as an actuator, a feedback
control loop was developed to stabilize the beam size and position.


Low-energy neutrino beams with an upgraded Fermilab proton driver

  The beam properties of low-energy neutrino beams that would be possible at an
upgraded 2 MW Fermilab 8 GeV Proton Source are described. In particular three
options are considered; (i) a MiniBooNE-like beam using a conventional neutrino
horn, (ii) a decay at rest neutrino source, and (iii) a neutrino beam
downstream of a solenoid decay channel. In all three cases the fluxes are
sufficiently large to provide an interesting physics program. Some physics
examples are considered.


Investigation of microwave radiation from a compressed beam of ions
  using generalized Planck radiation law

  An ion-beam compressed by an external electric force is characterized by a
unique non-equilibrium distribution function. This is a special case of Tsallis
distribution with entropy index q=2, which allows the system to possess
appreciably low thermal energy. The thermal radiation by such compressed
ion-beam has been investigated in this work. As the system is non extensive,
Planck law of radiation has been modified using Tsallis thermostatistics for
the investigation of the system. The average energy of radiation has been
derived by introducing the non extensive partition function in the statistical
relation of internal energy. The spectral energy density, spectral radiation
and total radiation power have also been computed. It is seen that a microwave
radiation will be emitted by the compressed ion-beam. The fusion energy gain Q
(ratio of the output fusion power to the power consumed by the system)
according to the proposed scheme (R. K. Paul 2015) using compressed ion-beam by
electric field will not change significantly as the radiated power is very
small.


Diagnostic criterion for crystallized beams

  Small ion crystals in a Paul trap are stable even in the absence of laser
cooling. Based on this theoretically and experimentally well-established fact
we propose the following diagnostic criterion for establishing the presence of
a crystallized beam: Absence of heating following the shut-down of all cooling
devices. The validity of the criterion is checked with the help of detailed
numerical simulations.


Interpreting Near-side Correlations

  Recent data from heavy ion collisions at RHIC show strong near-side
correlations extending over several units of rapidity. This ridge-like
correlation exhibits an abrupt onset with collision centrality. In this talk, I
argue that the centrality and beam-energy dependence of these near-angle
correlations could provide access to information about the Quark Gluon Plasma
phase boundary and the Equation of State of nuclear matter. A beam-energy-scan
at RHIC will better reveal the true source of these correlations and should be
a high priority at RHIC.


Directional pulse propagation in beam, rod, pipe, and disk geometries

  I derive directional wave equations useful for pulses propagating in beam,
rod, pipe, and disk geometries by using a cylindrical coordinate system; the
scheme works equally well for either long multi-cycle or single-cycle
ultrashort pulses. This is achieved by means of a factorization procedure that
conveniently generates exact bi-directional and first order wave equations
after the selection of propagation direction - either axial, radial, or even
angular. I then discuss how to reduce these to a uni-directional form, and
discuss the necessary approximation, which is essentially a paraxial
approximation as appropriately generalized to the specific geometry.


Optical design of split-beam photonic crystal nanocavities

  We design high quality factor photonic crystal nanobeam cavities formed by
two mechanically isolated cantilevers. These "split-beam" cavities have a
physical gap at the center, allowing mechanical excitations of one or both of
the cavity halves. They are designed by analyzing the optical band structures
and mode profiles of waveguides perforated by elliptical holes and rectangular
gaps, and are predicted to support optical resonances with quality factors
exceeding 1E6 at wavelengths of ~ 1.6 um.


Towards Verifying Nonlinear Integer Arithmetic

  We eliminate a key roadblock to efficient verification of nonlinear integer
arithmetic using CDCL SAT solvers, by showing how to construct short resolution
proofs for many properties of the most widely used multiplier circuits. Such
short proofs were conjectured not to exist. More precisely, we give n^{O(1)}
size regular resolution proofs for arbitrary degree 2 identities on array,
diagonal, and Booth multipliers and quasipolynomial- n^{O(\log n)} size proofs
for these identities on Wallace tree multipliers.


Readout Electronics for the CALICE ECAL and Tile HCAL

  The aims of the CALICE test beam program are presented. The proposed
electronics readout system for the CALICE ECAL is described. It is a
purpose-built VME-based, unbuffered system.


'Digital' Electron Diffraction - Seeing the Whole Picture

  The advantages of convergent beam electron diffraction for symmetry
determination at the scale of a few nm are well known. In practice, the
approach is often limited due to the restriction on the angular range of the
electron beam imposed by the small Bragg angle for high energy electron
diffraction, i.e. a large convergence angle of the incident beam results in
overlapping information in the diffraction pattern. Techniques have been
generally available since the 1980s which overcome this restriction for
individual diffracted beams, by making a compromise between illuminated area
and beam convergence. Here, we describe a simple technique which overcomes all
of these problems using computer control, giving electron diffraction data over
a large angular range for many diffracted beams from the volume given by a
focused electron beam (typically a few nm or less). The increase in the amount
of information significantly improves ease of interpretation and widens the
applicability of the technique, particularly for thin materials or those with
larger lattice parameters.


Robust Location-Aided Beam Alignment in Millimeter Wave Massive MIMO

  Location-aided beam alignment has been proposed recently as a potential
approach for fast link establishment in millimeter wave (mmWave) massive MIMO
(mMIMO) communications. However, due to mobility and other imperfections in the
estimation process, the spatial information obtained at the base station (BS)
and the user (UE) is likely to be noisy, degrading beam alignment performance.
In this paper, we introduce a robust beam alignment framework in order to
exhibit resilience with respect to this problem. We first recast beam alignment
as a decentralized coordination problem where BS and UE seek coordination on
the basis of correlated yet individual position information. We formulate the
optimum beam alignment solution as the solution of a Bayesian team decision
problem. We then propose a suite of algorithms to approach optimality with
reduced complexity. The effectiveness of the robust beam alignment procedure,
compared with classical designs, is then verified on simulation settings with
varying location information accuracies.


Beam Transport Systems for Particle Therapy

  The beam transport system between accelerator and patient treatment location
in a particle therapy facility is described. After some general layout aspects
the major beam handling tasks of this system are discussed. These are energy
selection, an optimal transport of the particle beam to the beam delivery
device and the gantry, a device that is able to rotate a beam delivery system
around the patient, so that the tumour can be irradiated from almost any
direction. Also the method of pencil beam scanning is described and how this is
implemented within a gantry. Using this method the particle dose is spread over
the tumour volume to the prescribed dose distribution.


Shining a Gluon Beam Through Quark-Gluon Plasma

  We compute the energy density radiated by a quark undergoing circular motion
in strongly coupled $\mathcal N = 4$ supersymmetric Yang-Mills plasma. If it
were in vacuum, this quark would radiate a beam of strongly coupled radiation
whose angular distribution has been characterized and is very similar to that
of synchrotron radiation produced by an electron in circular motion in
electrodynamics. Here, we watch this beam of gluons getting quenched by the
strongly coupled plasma. We find that a beam of gluons of momenta $\sim q \gg
\pi T$ is attenuated rapidly, over a distance $\sim q^{1/3} (\pi T)^{-4/3}$ in
a plasma with temperature $T$. As the beam propagates through the plasma at the
speed of light, it sheds trailing sound waves with momenta $\lesssim \pi T$.
Presumably these sound waves would thermalize in the plasma if they were not
hit soon after their production by the next pulse of gluons from the
lighthouse-like rotating quark. At larger and larger $q$, the trailing sound
wave becomes less and less prominent. The outward going beam of gluon radiation
itself shows no tendency to spread in angle or to shift toward larger
wavelengths, even as it is completely attenuated. In this regard, the behavior
of the beam of gluons that we analyze is reminiscent of the behavior of jets
produced in heavy ion collisions at the LHC that lose a significant fraction of
their energy without appreciable change in their angular distribution or their
momentum distribution as they plow through the strongly coupled quark-gluon
plasma produced in these collisions.


Electron beam induced current in the high injection regime

  Electron beam induced current (EBIC) is a powerful technique which measures
the charge collection efficiency of photovoltaics with sub-micron spatial
resolution. The exciting electron beam results in a high generation rate
density of electron-hole pairs, which may drive the system into nonlinear
regimes. An analytic model is presented which describes the EBIC response when
the {\it total} electron-hole pair generation rate exceeds the rate at which
carriers are extracted by the photovoltaic cell, and charge accumulation and
screening occur. The model provides a simple estimate of the onset of the high
injection regime in terms of the material resistivity and thickness, and
provides a straightforward way to predict the EBIC lineshape in the high
injection regime. The model is verified by comparing its predictions to
numerical simulations in 1 and 2 dimensions. Features of the experimental data,
such as the magnitude and position of maximum collection efficiency versus
electron beam current, are consistent with the 3 dimensional model.


Teleportation with the entangled states of a beam splitter

  We present a teleportation protocol based upon the entanglement produced from
Fock states incident onto a beam splitter of arbitrary transmissivity. The
teleportation fidelity is analysed, its trends being explained from
consideration of a beam splitter's input/output characteristics.


Low-energy muons via frictional cooling

  Low-energy muon beams are useful for a range of physics experiments. We
consider the production of low-energy muon beams with small energy spreads
using frictional cooling. As the input beam, we take a surface muon source such
as that at the Paul Scherrer Institute. Simulations show that the efficiency of
low energy muon production can potentially be raised to 1%, which is
significantly higher than that of current schemes.


Slow and velocity-tunable beams of metastable He$_2$ by multistage
  Zeeman deceleration

  Metastable helium molecules (He$_2^*$) have been generated by striking a
discharge in a supersonic expansion of helium gas from a pulsed valve. When
operating the pulsed valve at room temperature, 77K, and 10K, the mean velocity
of the supersonic beam was measured to be 1900m/s, 980m/s, and 530m/s,
respectively. A 55-stage Zeeman decelerator operated in a phase-stable manner
was then used to further reduce the beam velocity and tune it in the range
between 100 and 150m/s. The internal-state distribution of the decelerated
sample was established by photoionization spectroscopy.


Excitation of radiationless anapole mode of isotropic dielectric
  nanoparticles with tightly focused radially polarized beam

  A high index dielectric nano-sphere can be excited and yet remain
radiationless. A method to excite the non-radiating anapole mode of a high
index isotropic dielectric nanosphere is presented. With tightly focused
radially polarized beam illumination, the main-contributing electric dipole
mode and magnetic modes can be zero with only a weak electric quadruple
contributing to the total scattering. Further, with a standing wave
illumination formed by two counter-propagating focused radially polarized beam
under $4\pi$ configuration, the ideal radiationless ananpole can be excited.


Scattering studies with the DATURA beam telescope

  High-precision particle tracking devices allow for two-dimensional analyses
of the material budget distribution of particle detectors and their periphery.
In this contribution, the material budget of different targets is reconstructed
from the width of the angular distribution of scattered beam particle at a
sample under test. Electrons in the GeV-range serve as beam particles carrying
enough momentum to traverse few millimetre thick targets whilst offering
sufficient deflection for precise measurement. Reference measurements of the
scattering angle distribution of targets of known thicknesses are presented
that serve as calibration techniques required for tomographic reconstructions
of inhomogeneous objects.


The Mechanical Design for the Darht-II Downstream Beam Transport Line

  This paper describes the mechanical design of the downstream beam transport
line for the second axis of the Dual Axis Radiographic Hydrodynamic Test (DARHT
II) Facility. The DARHT-II project is a collaboration between LANL, LBNL and
LLNL. DARHT II is a 20-MeV, 2000-Amperes, 2-msec linear induction accelerator
designed to generate short bursts of x-rays for the purpose of radiographing
dense objects. The down-stream beam transport line is approximately 20-meter
long region extending from the end of the accelerator to the bremsstrahlung
target. Within this proposed transport line there are 15 conventional solenoid,
quadrupole and dipole magnets; as well as several speciality magnets, which
transport and focus the beam to the target and to the beam dumps. There are two
high power beam dumps, which are designed to absorb 80-kJ per pulse during
accelerator start-up and operation. Aspects of the mechanical design of these
elements are presented.


Summary of working group g: beam material interaction

  For the first time, the workshop on High-Intensity and High-Brightness Hadron
Beams (HB2010), held at Morschach, Switzerland and organized by the Paul
Scherrer Institute, included a Working group dealing with the interaction
between beam and material. Due to the high power beams of existing and future
facilities, this topic is already of great relevance for such machines and is
expected to become even more important in the future. While more specialized
workshops related to topics of radiation damage, activation or thermo -
mechanical calculations, already exist, HB2010 provided the occasion to discuss
the interplay of these topics, focusing on components like targets, beam dumps
and collimators, whose reliability are crucial for a user facility. In
addition, a broader community of people working on a variety of issues related
to the operation of accelerators could be informed and their interest sparked.


Medical Physics Commissioning

  The medical commissioning is an important step to bring a particle gantry
into clinical operation for tumour treatments. This involves the
parametrization and characterization of all relevant systems including the beam
delivery, the patient table, the imaging systems and the connection to all
required software components. This article is limited to necessary tasks for
the beam delivery system of a pencil beam scanning system. Usually the
commissioning starts with the characterization of the unscanned beam and the
calibration of the beam energy. The following steps are the parametrization of
the scanning system, the commissioning of the beam position monitoring system
and characterization of the spot size, all requiring precisions better than 1
mm. The commissioning effort for these tasks depends also on the gantry
topology. Finally, the calibration of the dose measurement system ensures that
any dose distribution can be delivered with an absolute precision better than
1%.


The DESY II Test Beam Facility

  DESY Hamburg operates a test beam facility with three independent beam lines
at the DESY II synchrotron. It is world-wide one of very few facilities
providing test beams in the GeV range. To this end, it offers electron/positron
beams with user-selectable momenta from 1-6 GeV/c. The available infrastructure
for the users is unique, including a high field solenoidal magnet and
permanently installed high-precision pixel beam telescopes. This publication
gives a detailed description of the facility, the available infrastructure, and
the simulated and measured performance.


Type-II Zeeman slowing: Characterization and comparison to conventional
  radiative beam slowing schemes

  We describe a novel Zeeman slowing method reported in (Petzold et al (2018
New J. Phys. 20 042001)) and compare it to conventional radiative beam slowing
schemes. The scheme is designed to work on a type-II level structure making it
particularly attractive for radiative beam slowing of molecules. Working on the
D$_{1}$-line of atomic $^{39}$K, we demonstrate efficient slowing of an atomic
beam from $\mathrm{400 \, m \, s^{-1}}$ down to $\mathrm{35 \, m \, s^{-1}}$
with a final flux of $3.3 \cdot 10^{9} \, \mathrm{cm}^{-2}\mathrm{s^{-1}}$. We
give experimental details and compare our results to other established
radiative slowing schemes in atomic and molecular physics. We find type-II
Zeeman slowing to outperform white-light slowing commonly used in molecular
beam slowing and to be comparably efficient as traditional type-I Zeeman
slowing being the standard beam slowing technique in atomic physics.


Precise On-line Position Measurement for Particle Therapy

  An on-line beam position monitoring and regular beam stability tests are of
utmost importance for the Quality Assurance (QA) of the patient treatment at
any particle therapy facility. The Gantry$\hspace{0.5 mm}2$ at the Paul
Scherrer Institute uses a strip ionization chamber for the on-line beam
position verification. The design of the strip chamber placed in the beam in
front of the patient allows for a small beam penumbra in order to achieve a
high-quality lateral beam delivery. The position error of 1 mm in a lateral
plane (plane perpendicular to the beam direction) can result in a dose
inhomogeneity of more than $5 \%$. Therefore the goal of Gantry 2 commissioning
was to reach a sub-millimeter level of the reconstruction accuracy in order to
bring a dose uncertainty to a level of $1 \%$. In fact, we observed that for
beams offered by Gantry 2 signal profiles in a lateral plane can be
reconstructed with a precision of 0.1 mm. This is a necessary criterion to
perform a reliable patient treatment. The front end electronics and the whole
data processing sequence have been optimized for minimizing the dead time in
between two consecutive spots to about 2 ms: the charge collection is performed
in about 1 ms, read-out takes place in about 100 $\mu$s while data verification
and logging are completed in less than 1 ms.


Evolution of a beam dynamics model for the transport lines in a proton
  therapy facility

  Despite the fact that the first-order beam dynamics models allow an
approximated evaluation of the beam properties, their contribution is essential
during the conceptual design of an accelerator or beamline. However, during the
commissioning some of their limitations appear in the comparison against
measurements. The extension of the linear model to higher order effects is,
therefore, demanded. In this paper, the effects of particle-matter interaction
have been included in the model of the transport lines in the proton therapy
facility at the Paul Scherrer Institut (PSI) in Switzerland. To improve the
performance of the facility, a more precise model was required and has been
developed with the multi-particle open source beam dynamics code called OPAL
(Object oriented Particle Accelerator Library). In OPAL, the Monte Carlo
simulations of Coulomb scattering and energy loss are performed seamless with
the particle tracking. Beside the linear optics, the influence of the passive
elements (e.g. degrader, collimators, scattering foils and air gaps) on the
beam emittance and energy spread can be analysed in the new model. This allows
for a significantly improved precision in the prediction of beam transmission
and beam properties. The accuracy of the OPAL model has been confirmed by
numerous measurements.


High-power liquid-lithium jet target for neutron production

  A compact Liquid-Lithium Target (LiLiT) was built and tested with a
high-power electron gun at Soreq Nuclear Research Center. The lithium target,
to be bombarded by the high-intensity proton beam of the Soreq Applied Research
Accelerator Facility (SARAF), will constitute an intense source of neutrons
produced by the 7Li(p,n)7Be reaction for nuclear astrophysics research and as a
pilot setup for accelerator-based Boron Neutron Capture Therapy (BNCT). The
liquid-lithium jet target acts both as neutron-producing target and beam dump
by removing the beam thermal power (>5 kW, >1 MW/cm3) with fast transport. The
target was designed based on a thermal model, accompanied by a detailed
calculation of the 7Li(p,n) neutron yield, energy distribution and angular
distribution. Liquid lithium is circulated through the target loop at ~200oC
and generates a stable 1.5 mm-thick film flowing at a velocity up to 7 m/s onto
a concave supporting wall. Electron beam irradiation demonstrated that the
liquid-lithium target can dissipate electron power areal densities of > 4
kW/cm2 and volume power density of ~ 2 MW/cm3 at a lithium flow of ~4 m/s while
maintaining stable temperature and vacuum conditions. The LiLiT setup is
presently in online commissioning stage for high-intensity proton beam
irradiation (1.91- 2.5 MeV, 1-2 mA) at SARAF.


Design and Simulation of a High Frequency High Power Rf Extraction
  Device Using a Dielectric-Loaded Waveguide

  We consider the use of a dielectric-loaded structure to extract rf energy
from a high current electron drive beam as a power source for a high energy
two-beam accelerator. This represents an alternative technique which we show to
have some significant advantages over the use of the currently proposed
corrugated metal structures as power extraction devices. We discuss a
particular design that will extract high power rf (0.1 -- 1 GW) from a high
current drive beam. Rf generation and transport in this class of devices have
already been demonstrated at lower frequencies. We discuss the design
parameters for 15 and 30 GHz dielectric transfer structures and some possible
experiments.


Studies of Particle Acceleration by an Active Microwave Medium

  The PASER is potentially a very attractive method for particle acceleration,
in which energy from an active medium is transferred to a charged particle
beam. The effect is similar to the action of a maser or laser with the
stimulated emission of radiation being produced by the virtual photons in the
electromagnetic field of the beam. We have been investigating the possibility
of developing a demonstration PASER operating at X-band. The less restrictive
beam transport and device dimensional tolerances required for working at X-band
rather than optical frequencies as well as the widespread application of X-band
hardware in accelerator technology all contribute to the attractiveness of
performing a PASER demonstration experiment in this frequency range. Key to
this approach is the availability of a new class of active materials that
exhibit photoinduced electron spin polarization. We will report on the status
of active material development and measurements, numerical simulations, and
progress towards a planned microwave PASER acceleration experiment at the
Argonne Wakefield Accelerator facility.


A Flexible Quasioptical Input System for a Submillimeter Muliobject
  Spectrometer

  We present a conceptual design for the input optical system for a
multi-object spectrometer operating at submillimeter wavelengths. The Mirror
MOS is based on a sequence of mirrors that enables low-loss propagation of
beams from selected positions distributed throughout the focal plane to the
spectroscopic receiver inputs. This approach should be useful for observations
of sources which have a relatively low density on the sky, for which it is
inefficient to use a traditional array receiver with uniformly spaced,
relatively closely packed beams. Our concept is based on assigning a patrol
region to each of the receivers, which have inputs distributed over the focal
plane of the telescope. The input to each receiver can be positioned at any
point within this patrol region. This approach, with only 4 reflections, offers
very low loss. The Gaussian beam optical system can be designed to produce
frequency-independent illumination of the telescope, which is an important
advantage for broadband systems such those required for determination of
redshifts of submillimeter galaxies.


Rotational Doppler beaming in eclipsing binaries

  In eclipsing binaries the stellar rotation of the two components will cause a
rotational Doppler beaming during eclipse ingress and egress when only part of
the eclipsed component is covered. For eclipsing binaries with fast spinning
components this photometric analogue of the well-known spectroscopic
Rossiter-McLaughlin effect can exceed the strength of the orbital effect.
Example light curves are shown for a detached double white dwarf binary, a
massive O-star binary and a transiting exoplanet case, similar to WASP-33b.
Inclusion of the rotational Doppler beaming in eclipsing systems is a
prerequisite for deriving the correct stellar parameters from fitting high
quality photometric light curves and can be used to determine stellar
obliquities as well as e.g. an independent measure of the rotational velocity
in those systems that may be expected to be fully synchronized.


Prospects for high-resolution microwave spectroscopy of methanol in a
  Stark-deflected molecular beam

  Recently, the extremely sensitive torsion-rotation transitions in methanol
have been used to set a tight constraint on a possible variation of the
proton-to-electron mass ratio over cosmological time scales. In order to
improve this constraint, laboratory data of increased accuracy will be
required. Here, we explore the possibility for performing high-resolution
spectroscopy on methanol in a Stark-deflected molecular beam. We have
calculated the Stark shift of the lower rotational levels in the ground
torsion-vibrational state of CH3OH and CD3OH molecules, and have used this to
simulate trajectories through a typical molecular beam resonance setup.
Furthermore, we have determined the efficiency of non-resonant multi-photon
ionization of methanol molecules using a femtosecond laser pulse. The described
setup is in principle suited to measure microwave transitions in CH3OH at an
accuracy below 10^{-8}.


In-situ growth optimization in focused electron-beam induced deposition

  We present the application of an evolutionary genetic algorithm for the
in-situ optimization of nanostructures prepared by focused
electron-beam-induced deposition. It allows us to tune the properties of the
deposits towards highest conductivity by using the time gradient of the
measured in-situ rate of change of conductance as fitness parameter for the
algorithm. The effectiveness of the procedure is presented for the precursor
W(CO)6 as well as for post-treatment of Pt-C deposits obtained by dissociation
of MeCpPt(Me)3. For W(CO)6-based structures an increase of conductivity by one
order of magnitude can be achieved, whereas the effect for MeCpPt(Me)3 is
largely suppressed. The presented technique can be applied to all beam-induced
deposition processes and has great potential for further optimization or tuning
of parameters for nanostrucures prepared by FEBID or related techniques.


Absolute absorption on the rubidium D lines: comparison between theory
  and experiment

  We study the Doppler-broadened absorption of a weak monochromatic probe beam
in a thermal rubidium vapour cell on the D lines. A detailed model of the
susceptibility is developed which takes into account the absolute linestrengths
of the allowed electric dipole transitions and the motion of the atoms parallel
to the probe beam. All transitions from both hyperfine levels of the ground
term of both isotopes are incorporated. The absorption and refractive index as
a function of frequency are expressed in terms of the complementary error
function. The absolute absorption profiles are compared with experiment, and
are found to be in excellent agreement provided a sufficiently weak probe beam
with an intensity under one thousandth of the saturation intensity is used. The
importance of hyperfine pumping for open transitions is discussed in the
context of achieving the weak-probe limit. Theory and experiment show excellent
agreement, with an rms error better than 0.2% for the D2 line at 16.5 degrees
C.


Recent Developments in Simulations of an Inverse Cyclotron for Intense
  Muon Beams

  A number of recent developments have led to simulations of an inverse
cyclotron for cooling intense muon beams for neutrino factories and muon
colliders. Such a device could potentially act as a novel beam cooling
mechanism for muons, and it would be significantly smaller and cheaper than
other cooling channel designs. Realistic designs are still being explored, but
the first simulations of particle tracking in the inverse cyclotron, with
accumulation in the cyclotron core, have been done with electrostatic
simulations in the particle-in-cell code VORPAL. We present an overview of the
muon inverse cyclotron concept and recent simulation results.


Superconductivity in the system $\rm Mo_xC_yGa_zO_δ$ prepared by
  focused ion beam induced deposition

  We have prepared the new amorphous superconductor $\rm Mo_xC_yGa_zO_{\delta}$
with a maximum critical temperature $T_c$ of 3.8\,K by the direct-write
nano-patterning technique of focused (gallium) ion beam induced deposition
(FIBID) using $\rm Mo(CO)_6$ as precursor gas. From a detailed analysis of the
temperature-dependent resistivity and the upper critical field we found clear
evidence for proximity of the samples to a disorder-induced metal-insulator
transition. We observed a strong dependence of $T_c$ on the deposition
parameters and identified clear correlations between $T_c$, the localization
tendency visible in the resistance data and the sample composition. By an
in-situ feedback-controlled optimization process in the FIB-induced growth we
were able to identify the beam parameters which lead to samples with the
largest $T_c$-value and sharpest transition into the superconducting state.


Depletion region surface effects in electron beam induced current
  measurements

  Electron beam induced current (EBIC) is a powerful characterization technique
which offers the high spatial resolution needed to study polycrystalline solar
cells. Current models of EBIC assume that excitations in the $p$-$n$ junction
depletion region result in perfect charge collection efficiency. However we
find that in CdTe and Si samples prepared by focused ion beam (FIB) milling,
there is a reduced and nonuniform EBIC lineshape for excitations in the
depletion region. Motivated by this, we present a model of the EBIC response
for excitations in the depletion region which includes the effects of surface
recombination from both charge-neutral and charged surfaces. For neutral
surfaces we present a simple analytical formula which describes the numerical
data well, while the charged surface response depends qualitatively on the
location of the surface Fermi level relative to the bulk Fermi level. We find
the experimental data on FIB-prepared Si solar cells is most consistent with a
charged surface, and discuss the implications for EBIC experiments on
polycrystalline materials.


Single-laser, one beam, tetrahedral magneto-optical trap

  We have realised a 4-beam pyramidal magneto-optical trap ideally suited for
future microfabrication. Three mirrors split and steer a single incoming beam
into a tripod of reflected beams, allowing trapping in the four-beam overlap
volume. We discuss the influence of mirror angle on cooling and trapping,
finding optimum efficiency in a tetrahedral configuration. We demonstrate the
technique using an ex-vacuo mirror system to illustrate the previously
inaccessible supra-plane pyramid MOT configuration. Unlike standard pyramidal
MOTs both the pyramid apex and its mirror angle are non-critical and our MOT
offers improved molasses free from atomic shadows in the laser beams. The MOT
scheme naturally extends to a 2-beam refractive version with high optical
access. For quantum gas experiments, the mirror system could also be used for a
stable 3D tetrahedral optical lattice.


