MIT at SemEval-2017 Task 10: Relation Extraction with Convolutional
  Neural Networks

  Over 50 million scholarly articles have been published: they constitute a
unique repository of knowledge. In particular, one may infer from them
relations between scientific concepts, such as synonyms and hyponyms.
Artificial neural networks have been recently explored for relation extraction.
In this work, we continue this line of work and present a system based on a
convolutional neural network to extract relations. Our model ranked first in
the SemEval-2017 task 10 (ScienceIE) for relation extraction in scientific
articles (subtask C).


Neural Networks for Joint Sentence Classification in Medical Paper
  Abstracts

  Existing models based on artificial neural networks (ANNs) for sentence
classification often do not incorporate the context in which sentences appear,
and classify sentences individually. However, traditional sentence
classification approaches have been shown to greatly benefit from jointly
classifying subsequent sentences, such as with conditional random fields. In
this work, we present an ANN architecture that combines the effectiveness of
typical ANN models to classify sentences in isolation, with the strength of
structured prediction. Our model achieves state-of-the-art results on two
different datasets for sequential sentence classification in medical abstracts.


The Use of Autoencoders for Discovering Patient Phenotypes

  We use autoencoders to create low-dimensional embeddings of underlying
patient phenotypes that we hypothesize are a governing factor in determining
how different patients will react to different interventions. We compare the
performance of autoencoders that take fixed length sequences of concatenated
timesteps as input with a recurrent sequence-to-sequence autoencoder. We
evaluate our methods on around 35,500 patients from the latest MIMIC III
dataset from Beth Israel Deaconess Hospital.


Modeling Mistrust in End-of-Life Care

  In this work, we characterize the doctor-patient relationship using a machine
learning-derived trust score. We show that this score has statistically
significant racial associations, and that by modeling trust directly we find
stronger disparities in care than by stratifying on race. We further
demonstrate that mistrust is indicative of worse outcomes, but is only weakly
associated with physiologically-created severity scores. Finally, we describe
sentiment analysis experiments indicating patients with higher levels of
mistrust have worse experiences and interactions with their caregivers. This
work is a step towards measuring fairer machine learning in the healthcare
domain.


Hierarchical Neural Networks for Sequential Sentence Classification in
  Medical Scientific Abstracts

  Prevalent models based on artificial neural network (ANN) for sentence
classification often classify sentences in isolation without considering the
context in which sentences appear. This hampers the traditional sentence
classification approaches to the problem of sequential sentence classification,
where structured prediction is needed for better overall classification
performance. In this work, we present a hierarchical sequential labeling
network to make use of the contextual information within surrounding sentences
to help classify the current sentence. Our model outperforms the
state-of-the-art results by 2%-3% on two benchmarking datasets for sequential
sentence classification in medical scientific abstracts.


Global Conditioning for Probabilistic Inference in Belief Networks

  In this paper we propose a new approach to probabilistic inference on belief
networks, global conditioning, which is a simple generalization of Pearl's
(1986b) method of loopcutset conditioning. We show that global conditioning, as
well as loop-cutset conditioning, can be thought of as a special case of the
method of Lauritzen and Spiegelhalter (1988) as refined by Jensen et al (199Oa;
1990b). Nonetheless, this approach provides new opportunities for parallel
processing and, in the case of sequential processing, a tradeoff of time for
memory. We also show how a hybrid method (Suermondt and others 1990) combining
loop-cutset conditioning with Jensen's method can be viewed within our
framework. By exploring the relationships between these methods, we develop a
unifying framework in which the advantages of each approach can be combined
successfully.


NeuroNER: an easy-to-use program for named-entity recognition based on
  neural networks

  Named-entity recognition (NER) aims at identifying entities of interest in a
text. Artificial neural networks (ANNs) have recently been shown to outperform
existing NER systems. However, ANNs remain challenging to use for non-expert
users. In this paper, we present NeuroNER, an easy-to-use named-entity
recognition tool based on ANNs. Users can annotate entities using a graphical
web-based user interface (BRAT): the annotations are then used to train an ANN,
which in turn predict entities' locations and categories in new texts. NeuroNER
makes this annotation-training-prediction flow smooth and accessible to anyone.


Transfer Learning for Named-Entity Recognition with Neural Networks

  Recent approaches based on artificial neural networks (ANNs) have shown
promising results for named-entity recognition (NER). In order to achieve high
performances, ANNs need to be trained on a large labeled dataset. However,
labels might be difficult to obtain for the dataset on which the user wants to
perform NER: label scarcity is particularly pronounced for patient note
de-identification, which is an instance of NER. In this work, we analyze to
what extent transfer learning may address this issue. In particular, we
demonstrate that transferring an ANN model trained on a large labeled dataset
to another dataset with a limited number of labels improves upon the
state-of-the-art results on two different datasets for patient note
de-identification.


Continuous State-Space Models for Optimal Sepsis Treatment - a Deep
  Reinforcement Learning Approach

  Sepsis is a leading cause of mortality in intensive care units (ICUs) and
costs hospitals billions annually. Treating a septic patient is highly
challenging, because individual patients respond very differently to medical
interventions and there is no universally agreed-upon treatment for sepsis.
Understanding more about a patient's physiological state at a given time could
hold the key to effective treatment policies. In this work, we propose a new
approach to deduce optimal treatment policies for septic patients by using
continuous state-space models and deep reinforcement learning. Learning
treatment policies over continuous spaces is important, because we retain more
of the patient's physiological information. Our model is able to learn
clinically interpretable treatment policies, similar in important aspects to
the treatment policies of physicians. Evaluating our algorithm on past ICU
patient data, we find that our model could reduce patient mortality in the
hospital by up to 3.6% over observed clinical policies, from a baseline
mortality of 13.7%. The learned treatment policies could be used to aid
intensive care clinicians in medical decision making and improve the likelihood
of patient survival.


Clinical Intervention Prediction and Understanding using Deep Networks

  Real-time prediction of clinical interventions remains a challenge within
intensive care units (ICUs). This task is complicated by data sources that are
noisy, sparse, heterogeneous and outcomes that are imbalanced. In this paper,
we integrate data from all available ICU sources (vitals, labs, notes,
demographics) and focus on learning rich representations of this data to
predict onset and weaning of multiple invasive interventions. In particular, we
compare both long short-term memory networks (LSTM) and convolutional neural
networks (CNN) for prediction of five intervention tasks: invasive ventilation,
non-invasive ventilation, vasopressors, colloid boluses, and crystalloid
boluses. Our predictions are done in a forward-facing manner to enable
"real-time" performance, and predictions are made with a six hour gap time to
support clinically actionable planning. We achieve state-of-the-art results on
our predictive tasks using deep architectures. We explore the use of feature
occlusion to interpret LSTM models, and compare this to the interpretability
gained from examining inputs that maximally activate CNN outputs. We show that
our models are able to significantly outperform baselines in intervention
prediction, and provide insight into model learning, which is crucial for the
adoption of such models in practice.


Deep Reinforcement Learning for Sepsis Treatment

  Sepsis is a leading cause of mortality in intensive care units and costs
hospitals billions annually. Treating a septic patient is highly challenging,
because individual patients respond very differently to medical interventions
and there is no universally agreed-upon treatment for sepsis. In this work, we
propose an approach to deduce treatment policies for septic patients by using
continuous state-space models and deep reinforcement learning. Our model learns
clinically interpretable treatment policies, similar in important aspects to
the treatment policies of physicians. The learned policies could be used to aid
intensive care clinicians in medical decision making and improve the likelihood
of patient survival.


Representation and Reinforcement Learning for Personalized Glycemic
  Control in Septic Patients

  Glycemic control is essential for critical care. However, it is a challenging
task because there has been no study on personalized optimal strategies for
glycemic control. This work aims to learn personalized optimal glycemic
trajectories for severely ill septic patients by learning data-driven policies
to identify optimal targeted blood glucose levels as a reference for
clinicians. We encoded patient states using a sparse autoencoder and adopted a
reinforcement learning paradigm using policy iteration to learn the optimal
policy from data. We also estimated the expected return following the policy
learned from the recorded glycemic trajectories, which yielded a function
indicating the relationship between real blood glucose values and 90-day
mortality rates. This suggests that the learned optimal policy could reduce the
patients' estimated 90-day mortality rate by 6.3%, from 31% to 24.7%. The
result demonstrates that reinforcement learning with appropriate patient state
encoding can potentially provide optimal glycemic trajectories and allow
clinicians to design a personalized strategy for glycemic control in septic
patients.


CliNER 2.0: Accessible and Accurate Clinical Concept Extraction

  Clinical notes often describe important aspects of a patient's stay and are
therefore critical to medical research. Clinical concept extraction (CCE) of
named entities - such as problems, tests, and treatments - aids in forming an
understanding of notes and provides a foundation for many downstream clinical
decision-making tasks. Historically, this task has been posed as a standard
named entity recognition (NER) sequence tagging problem, and solved with
feature-based methods using handengineered domain knowledge. Recent advances,
however, have demonstrated the efficacy of LSTM-based models for NER tasks,
including CCE. This work presents CliNER 2.0, a simple-to-install, open-source
tool for extracting concepts from clinical text. CliNER 2.0 uses a word- and
character- level LSTM model, and achieves state-of-the-art performance. For
ease of use, the tool also includes pre-trained models available for public
use.


Towards the Creation of a Large Corpus of Synthetically-Identified
  Clinical Notes

  Clinical notes often describe the most important aspects of a patient's
physiology and are therefore critical to medical research. However, these notes
are typically inaccessible to researchers without prior removal of sensitive
protected health information (PHI), a natural language processing (NLP) task
referred to as deidentification. Tools to automatically de-identify clinical
notes are needed but are difficult to create without access to those very same
notes containing PHI. This work presents a first step toward creating a large
synthetically-identified corpus of clinical notes and corresponding PHI
annotations in order to facilitate the development de-identification tools.
Further, one such tool is evaluated against this corpus in order to understand
the advantages and shortcomings of this approach.


Mapping Unparalleled Clinical Professional and Consumer Languages with
  Embedding Alignment

  Mapping and translating professional but arcane clinical jargons to consumer
language is essential to improve the patient-clinician communication.
Researchers have used the existing biomedical ontologies and consumer health
vocabulary dictionary to translate between the languages. However, such
approaches are limited by expert efforts to manually build the dictionary,
which is hard to be generalized and scalable. In this work, we utilized the
embeddings alignment method for the word mapping between unparalleled clinical
professional and consumer language embeddings. To map semantically similar
words in two different word embeddings, we first independently trained word
embeddings on both the corpus with abundant clinical professional terms and the
other with mainly healthcare consumer terms. Then, we aligned the embeddings by
the Procrustes algorithm. We also investigated the approach with the
adversarial training with refinement. We evaluated the quality of the alignment
through the similar words retrieval both by computing the model precision and
as well as judging qualitatively by human. We show that the Procrustes
algorithm can be performant for the professional consumer language embeddings
alignment, whereas adversarial training with refinement may find some relations
between two languages.


Racial Disparities and Mistrust in End-of-Life Care

  There are established racial disparities in healthcare, including during
end-of-life care, when poor communication and trust can lead to suboptimal
outcomes for patients and their families. In this work, we find that racial
disparities which have been reported in existing literature are also present in
the MIMIC-III database. We hypothesize that one underlying cause of this
disparity is due to mistrust between patient and caregivers, and we develop
multiple possible trust metric proxies (using coded interpersonal variables and
clinical notes) to measure this phenomenon more directly. These metrics show
even stronger disparities in end-of-life care than race does, and they also
tend to demonstrate statistically significant higher levels of mistrust for
black patients than white ones. Finally, we demonstrate that these metrics
improve performance on three clinical tasks: in-hospital mortality, discharge
against medical advice (AMA) and modified care status (e.g., DNR, DNI, etc.).


Advancing PICO Element Detection in Medical Text via Deep Neural
  Networks

  In evidence-based medicine (EBM), structured medical questions are always
favored for efficient search of the best available evidence for treatments.
PICO element detection is widely used to help structurize the clinical studies
and question by identifying the sentences in a given medical text that belong
to one of the four components: Participants (P), Intervention (I), Comparison
(C), and Outcome (O). In this work, we propose a hierarchical deep neural
network (DNN) architecture that contains dual bi-directional long short-term
memory (bi-LSTM) layers to automatically detect the PICO element in medical
texts. Within the model, the lower layer of bi-LSTM is for sentence encoding
while the upper one is to contextualize the encoded sentence representation
vector. In addition, we adopt adversarial and virtual adversarial training to
regularize the model. Overall, we advance the PICO element detection to new
state-of-the-art performance, outperforming the previous works by at least 4\%
in F1 score for all P/I/O categories.


Implementing a Portable Clinical NLP System with a Common Data Model - a
  Lisp Perspective

  This paper presents a Lisp architecture for a portable NLP system, termed
LAPNLP, for processing clinical notes. LAPNLP integrates multiple standard,
customized and in-house developed NLP tools. Our system facilitates portability
across different institutions and data systems by incorporating an enriched
Common Data Model (CDM) to standardize necessary data elements. It utilizes
UMLS to perform domain adaptation when integrating generic domain NLP tools. It
also features stand-off annotations that are specified by positional reference
to the original document. We built an interval tree based search engine to
efficiently query and retrieve the stand-off annotations by specifying
positional requirements. We also developed a utility to convert an inline
annotation format to stand-off annotations to enable the reuse of clinical text
datasets with inline annotations. We experimented with our system on several
NLP facilitated tasks including computational phenotyping for lymphoma patients
and semantic relation extraction for clinical notes. These experiments
showcased the broader applicability and utility of LAPNLP.


Unsupervised Multimodal Representation Learning across Medical Images
  and Reports

  Joint embeddings between medical imaging modalities and associated radiology
reports have the potential to offer significant benefits to the clinical
community, ranging from cross-domain retrieval to conditional generation of
reports to the broader goals of multimodal representation learning. In this
work, we establish baseline joint embedding results measured via both local and
global retrieval methods on the soon to be released MIMIC-CXR dataset
consisting of both chest X-ray images and the associated radiology reports. We
examine both supervised and unsupervised methods on this task and show that for
document retrieval tasks with the learned representations, only a limited
amount of supervision is needed to yield results comparable to those of
fully-supervised methods.


Unsupervised Clinical Language Translation

  As patients' access to their doctors' clinical notes becomes common,
translating professional, clinical jargon to layperson-understandable language
is essential to improve patient-clinician communication. Such translation
yields better clinical outcomes by enhancing patients' understanding of their
own health conditions, and thus improving patients' involvement in their own
care. Existing research has used dictionary-based word replacement or
definition insertion to approach the need. However, these methods are limited
by expert curation, which is hard to scale and has trouble generalizing to
unseen datasets that do not share an overlapping vocabulary. In contrast, we
approach the clinical word and sentence translation problem in a completely
unsupervised manner. We show that a framework using representation learning,
bilingual dictionary induction and statistical machine translation yields the
best precision at 10 of 0.827 on professional-to-consumer word translation, and
mean opinion scores of 4.10 and 4.28 out of 5 for clinical correctness and
layperson readability, respectively, on sentence translation. Our
fully-unsupervised strategy overcomes the curation problem, and the clinically
meaningful evaluation reduces biases from inappropriate evaluators, which are
critical in clinical machine learning.


Clinically Accurate Chest X-Ray Report Generation

  The automatic generation of radiology reports given medical radiographs has
significant potential to operationally and clinically improve patient care. A
number of prior works have focused on this problem, employing advanced methods
from computer vision and natural language generation to produce readable
reports. However, these works often fail to account for the particular nuances
of the radiology domain, and, in particular, the critical importance of
clinical accuracy in the resulting generated reports. In this work, we present
a domain-aware automatic chest X-Ray radiology report generation system which
first predicts what topics will be discussed in the report, then conditionally
generates sentences corresponding to these topics. The resulting system is
fine-tuned using reinforcement learning, considering both readability and
clinical accuracy, as assessed by the proposed Clinically Coherent Reward. We
verify this system on two datasets, Open-I and MIMIC-CXR, and demonstrate that
our model offers marked improvements on both language generation metrics and
CheXpert assessed accuracy over a variety of competitive baselines.


De-identification of Patient Notes with Recurrent Neural Networks

  Objective: Patient notes in electronic health records (EHRs) may contain
critical information for medical investigations. However, the vast majority of
medical investigators can only access de-identified notes, in order to protect
the confidentiality of patients. In the United States, the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) defines 18 types of protected health
information (PHI) that needs to be removed to de-identify patient notes. Manual
de-identification is impractical given the size of EHR databases, the limited
number of researchers with access to the non-de-identified notes, and the
frequent mistakes of human annotators. A reliable automated de-identification
system would consequently be of high value.
  Materials and Methods: We introduce the first de-identification system based
on artificial neural networks (ANNs), which requires no handcrafted features or
rules, unlike existing systems. We compare the performance of the system with
state-of-the-art systems on two datasets: the i2b2 2014 de-identification
challenge dataset, which is the largest publicly available de-identification
dataset, and the MIMIC de-identification dataset, which we assembled and is
twice as large as the i2b2 2014 dataset.
  Results: Our ANN model outperforms the state-of-the-art systems. It yields an
F1-score of 97.85 on the i2b2 2014 dataset, with a recall 97.38 and a precision
of 97.32, and an F1-score of 99.23 on the MIMIC de-identification dataset, with
a recall 99.25 and a precision of 99.06.
  Conclusion: Our findings support the use of ANNs for de-identification of
patient notes, as they show better performance than previously published
systems while requiring no feature engineering.


Feature-Augmented Neural Networks for Patient Note De-identification

  Patient notes contain a wealth of information of potentially great interest
to medical investigators. However, to protect patients' privacy, Protected
Health Information (PHI) must be removed from the patient notes before they can
be legally released, a process known as patient note de-identification. The
main objective for a de-identification system is to have the highest possible
recall. Recently, the first neural-network-based de-identification system has
been proposed, yielding state-of-the-art results. Unlike other systems, it does
not rely on human-engineered features, which allows it to be quickly deployed,
but does not leverage knowledge from human experts or from electronic health
records (EHRs). In this work, we explore a method to incorporate
human-engineered features as well as features derived from EHRs to a
neural-network-based de-identification system. Our results show that the
addition of features, especially the EHR-derived features, further improves the
state-of-the-art in patient note de-identification, including for some of the
most sensitive PHI types such as patient names. Since in a real-life setting
patient notes typically come with EHRs, we recommend developers of
de-identification systems to leverage the information EHRs contain.


Predicting Blood Pressure Response to Fluid Bolus Therapy Using
  Attention-Based Neural Networks for Clinical Interpretability

  Determining whether hypotensive patients in intensive care units (ICUs)
should receive fluid bolus therapy (FBT) has been an extremely challenging task
for intensive care physicians as the corresponding increase in blood pressure
has been hard to predict. Our study utilized regression models and
attention-based recurrent neural network (RNN) algorithms and a multi-clinical
information system large-scale database to build models that can predict the
successful response to FBT among hypotensive patients in ICUs. We investigated
both time-aggregated modeling using logistic regression algorithms with
regularization and time-series modeling using the long short term memory
network (LSTM) and the gated recurrent units network (GRU) with the attention
mechanism for clinical interpretability. Among all modeling strategies, the
stacked LSTM with the attention mechanism yielded the most predictable model
with the highest accuracy of 0.852 and area under the curve (AUC) value of
0.925. The study results may help identify hypotensive patients in ICUs who
will have sufficient blood pressure recovery after FBT.


