Practical Rate and Route Adaptation with Efficient Link Quality
  Estimation for IEEE 802.11b/g Multi-Hop Networks

  Accurate and fast packet delivery rate (PDR) estimation, used in evaluating
wireless link quality, is a prerequisite to increase the performance of mobile,
multi-hop and multi-rate wireless ad hoc networks. Unfortunately, contemporary
PDR estimation methods, i.e. beacon-based packet counting in Estimated
Transmission Time and Expected Transmission Count metrics, have unsatisfactory
performance. Therefore, in this paper we propose a novel PDR estimation method
based on SNR profiles. We classify all possible link quality estimation methods
and compare them analytically against our design. Results show that it leads to
a more efficient link quality estimation. Further investigations with the
prototype implementation of our method in IEEE 802.11b/g testbeds reveal that
the accuracy of PDR estimation in mobile scenarios can be improved up to 50% in
comparison to generic packet-based PDR. Experiments with the same prototype on
link and routing layers for different measurement scenarios show that it leads
to a better rate adaptation and route selection in the form of end-to-end
throughput increase compared to traditional packet counting methods.


Using Social Information for Flow Allocation in MANETs

  Adhoc networks enable communication between distributed, mobile wireless
nodes without any supporting infrastructure. In the absence of centralized
control, such networks require node interaction, and are inherently based on
cooperation between nodes. In this paper, we use social and behavioral trust of
nodes to form a flow allocation optimization problem. We initialize trust using
information gained from users' social relationships (from social networks) and
update the trusts metric over time based on observed node behaviors. We conduct
analysis of social trust using real data sets and used it as a parameter for
performance evaluation of our frame work in ns-3. Based on our approach we
obtain a significant improvement in both detection rate and packet delivery
ratio using social trust information when compared to behavioral trust alone.
Further, we observe that social trust is critical in the event of mobility and
plays a crucial role in bootstrapping the computation of trust.


Trust Exploitation and Attention Competition: A Game Theoretical Model

  The proliferation of Social Network Sites (SNSs) has greatly reformed the way
of information dissemination, but also provided a new venue for hosts with
impure motivations to disseminate malicious information. Social trust is the
basis for information dissemination in SNSs. Malicious hosts judiciously and
dynamically make the balance between maintaining its social trust and selfishly
maximizing its malicious gain over a long time-span. Studying the optimal
response strategies for each malicious host could assist to design the best
system maneuver so as to achieve the targeted level of overall malicious
activities. In this paper, we propose an interaction-based social trust model,
and formulate the maximization of long-term malicious gains of multiple
competing hosts as a non-cooperative differential game. Through rigorous
analysis, optimal response strategies are identified and the best system
maneuver mechanism is presented. Extensive numerical studies further verify the
analytical results.


FlowIntent: Detecting Privacy Leakage from User Intention to Network
  Traffic Mapping

  The exponential growth of mobile devices has raised concerns about sensitive
data leakage. In this paper, we make the first attempt to identify suspicious
location-related HTTP transmission flows from the user's perspective, by
answering the question: Is the transmission user-intended? In contrast to
previous network-level detection schemes that mainly rely on a given set of
suspicious hostnames, our approach can better adapt to the fast growth of app
market and the constantly evolving leakage patterns. On the other hand,
compared to existing system-level detection schemes built upon program taint
analysis, where all sensitive transmissions as treated as illegal, our approach
better meets the user needs and is easier to deploy. In particular, our
proof-of-concept implementation (FlowIntent) captures sensitive transmissions
missed by TaintDroid, the state-of-the-art dynamic taint analysis system on
Android platforms. Evaluation using 1002 location sharing instances collected
from more than 20,000 apps shows that our approach achieves about 91% accuracy
in detecting illegitimate location transmissions.


LeakSemantic: Identifying Abnormal Sensitive Network Transmissions in
  Mobile Applications

  Mobile applications (apps) often transmit sensitive data through network with
various intentions. Some transmissions are needed to fulfill the app's
functionalities. However, transmissions with malicious receivers may lead to
privacy leakage and tend to behave stealthily to evade detection. The problem
is twofold: how does one unveil sensitive transmissions in mobile apps, and
given a sensitive transmission, how does one determine if it is legitimate?
  In this paper, we propose LeakSemantic, a framework that can automatically
locate abnormal sensitive network transmissions from mobile apps. LeakSemantic
consists of a hybrid program analysis component and a machine learning
component. Our program analysis component combines static analysis and dynamic
analysis to precisely identify sensitive transmissions. Compared to existing
taint analysis approaches, LeakSemantic achieves better accuracy with fewer
false positives and is able to collect runtime data such as network traffic for
each transmission. Based on features derived from the runtime data, machine
learning classifiers are built to further differentiate between the legal and
illegal disclosures. Experiments show that LeakSemantic achieves 91% accuracy
on 2279 sensitive connections from 1404 apps.


When to Reset Your Keys: Optimal Timing of Security Updates via Learning

  Cybersecurity is increasingly threatened by advanced and persistent attacks.
As these attacks are often designed to disable a system (or a critical
resource, e.g., a user account) repeatedly, it is crucial for the defender to
keep updating its security measures to strike a balance between the risk of
being compromised and the cost of security updates. Moreover, these decisions
often need to be made with limited and delayed feedback due to the stealthy
nature of advanced attacks. In addition to targeted attacks, such an optimal
timing policy under incomplete information has broad applications in
cybersecurity. Examples include key rotation, password change, application of
patches, and virtual machine refreshing. However, rigorous studies of optimal
timing are rare. Further, existing solutions typically rely on a pre-defined
attack model that is known to the defender, which is often not the case in
practice. In this work, we make an initial effort towards achieving optimal
timing of security updates in the face of unknown stealthy attacks. We consider
a variant of the influential FlipIt game model with asymmetric feedback and
unknown attack time distribution, which provides a general model to consecutive
security updates. The defender's problem is then modeled as a time associative
bandit problem with dependent arms. We derive upper confidence bound based
learning policies that achieve low regret compared with optimal periodic
defense strategies that can only be derived when attack time distributions are
known.


Edge Cloud Offloading Algorithms: Issues, Methods, and Perspectives

  Mobile devices supporting the "Internet of Things" (IoT), often have limited
capabilities in computation, battery energy, and storage space, especially to
support resource-intensive applications involving virtual reality (VR),
augmented reality (AR), multimedia delivery and artificial intelligence (AI),
which could require broad bandwidth, low response latency and large
computational power. Edge cloud or edge computing is an emerging topic and
technology that can tackle the deficiency of the currently centralized-only
cloud computing model and move the computation and storage resource closer to
the devices in support of the above-mentioned applications. To make this
happen, efficient coordination mechanisms and "offloading" algorithms are
needed to allow the mobile devices and the edge cloud to work together
smoothly. In this survey paper, we investigate the key issues, methods, and
various state-of-the-art efforts related to the offloading problem. We adopt a
new characterizing model to study the whole process of offloading from mobile
devices to the edge cloud. Through comprehensive discussions, we aim to draw an
overall "big picture" on the existing efforts and research directions. Our
study also indicates that the offloading algorithms in edge cloud have
demonstrated profound potentials for future technology and application
development.


Wireless Access to Ultimate Virtual Reality 360-Degree Video At Home

  Virtual reality 360-degree videos will become the first prosperous online VR
application. VR 360 videos are data-hungry and latency-sensitive that pose
unique challenges to the networking infrastructure. In this paper, we focus on
the ultimate VR 360 that satisfies human eye fidelity. The ultimate VR 360
requires downlink 1.5 Gbps for viewing and uplink 6.6 Gbps for live
broadcasting, with round-trip time of less than 8.3 ms. On the other hand,
wireless access to VR 360 services is preferred over wire-line transmission
because of the better user experience and the safety concern (e.g., tripping
hazard). We explore in this paper whether the most advanced wireless
technologies from both cellular communications and WiFi communications support
the ultimate VR 360. Specifically, we consider 5G in cellular communications,
IEEE 802.11ac (operating in 5GHz) and IEEE 802.11ad (operating in 60GHz) in
WiFi communications. According to their performance specified in their
standards and/or empirical measurements, we have the following findings: (1)
Only 5G has the potential to support both the the ultimate VR 360 viewing and
live broadcasting. However, it is difficult for 5G to support multiple users of
the ultimate VR live broadcasting at home; (2) IEEE 802.11ac supports the
ultimate VR 360 viewing but fails to support the ultimate VR 360 live
broadcasting because it does not meet the data rate requirement of the ultimate
VR 360 live broadcasting; (3) IEEE 802.11ad fails to support the ultimate VR
360, because its current implementation incurs very high latency. Our
preliminary results indicate that more advanced wireless technologies are
needed to fully support multiple ultimate VR 360 users at home.


Strong Black-box Adversarial Attacks on Unsupervised Machine Learning
  Models

  Machine Learning (ML) and Deep Learning (DL) models have achieved
state-of-the-art performance on multiple learning tasks, from vision to natural
language modelling. With the growing adoption of ML and DL to many areas of
computer science, recent research has also started focusing on the security
properties of these models. There has been a lot of work undertaken to
understand if (deep) neural network architectures are resilient to black-box
adversarial attacks which craft perturbed input samples that fool the
classifier without knowing the architecture used. Recent work has also focused
on the transferability of adversarial attacks and found that adversarial
attacks are generally easily transferable between models, datasets, and
techniques. However, such attacks and their analysis have not been covered from
the perspective of unsupervised machine learning algorithms. In this paper, we
seek to bridge this gap through multiple contributions. We first provide a
strong (iterative) black-box adversarial attack that can craft adversarial
samples which will be incorrectly clustered irrespective of the choice of
clustering algorithm. We choose 4 prominent clustering algorithms, and a
real-world dataset to show the working of the proposed adversarial algorithm.
Using these clustering algorithms we also carry out a simple study of
cross-technique adversarial attack transferability.


