Long-Lived Distributed Relative Localization of Robot Swarms

  This paper studies the problem of having mobile robots in a multi-robot
system maintain an estimate of the relative position and relative orientation
of near-by robots in the environment. This problem is studied in the context of
large swarms of simple robots which are capable of measuring only the distance
to near-by robots.
  We present two distributed localization algorithms with different trade-offs
between their computational complexity and their coordination requirements. The
first algorithm does not require the robots to coordinate their motion. It
relies on a non-linear least squares based strategy to allow robots to compute
the relative pose of near-by robots. The second algorithm borrows tools from
distributed computing theory to coordinate which robots must remain stationary
and which robots are allowed to move. This coordination allows the robots to
use standard trilateration techniques to compute the relative pose of near-by
robots. Both algorithms are analyzed theoretically and validated through
simulations.


Surface curvature guides early construction activity in mound-building
  termites

  Termite colonies construct towering, complex mounds, in a classic example of
distributed agents coordinating their activity via interaction with a shared
environment. The traditional explanation for how this coordination occurs
focuses on the idea of a "cement pheromone", a chemical signal left with
deposited soil that triggers further deposition. Recent research has called
this idea into question, pointing to a more complicated behavioral response to
cues perceived with multiple senses. In this work, we explored the role of
topological cues in affecting early construction activity in Macrotermes. We
created artificial surfaces with a known range of curvatures, coated them with
nest soil, placed groups of major workers on them, and evaluated soil
displacement as a function of location at the end of one hour. Each point on
the surface has a given curvature, inclination, and absolute height; to
disambiguate these factors, we conducted experiments with the surface in
different orientations. Soil displacement activity is consistently correlated
with surface curvature, and not with inclination nor height. Early exploration
activity is also correlated with curvature, to a lesser degree. Topographical
cues provide a long-term physical memory of building activity in a manner that
ephemeral pheromone labeling cannot. Elucidating the roles of these and other
cues for group coordination may help provide organizing principles for swarm
robotics and other artificial systems.


