Font Identification in Historical Documents Using Active Learning

  Identifying the type of font (e.g., Roman, Blackletter) used in historical
documents can help optical character recognition (OCR) systems produce more
accurate text transcriptions. Towards this end, we present an active-learning
strategy that can significantly reduce the number of labeled samples needed to
train a font classifier. Our approach extracts image-based features that
exploit geometric differences between fonts at the word level, and combines
them into a bag-of-word representation for each page in a document. We evaluate
six sampling strategies based on uncertainty, dissimilarity and diversity
criteria, and test them on a database containing over 3,000 historical
documents with Blackletter, Roman and Mixed fonts. Our results show that a
combination of uncertainty and diversity achieves the highest predictive
accuracy (89% of test cases correctly classified) while requiring only a small
fraction of the data (17%) to be labeled. We discuss the implications of this
result for mass digitization projects of historical documents.


Recommendation of Scholarly Venues Based on Dynamic User Interests

  The ever-growing number of venues publishing academic work makes it difficult
for researchers to identify venues that publish data and research most in line
with their scholarly interests. A solution is needed, therefore, whereby
researchers can identify information dissemination pathways in order to both
access and contribute to an existing body of knowledge. In this study, we
present a system to recommend scholarly venues rated in terms of relevance to a
given researcher's current scholarly pursuits and interests. We collected our
data from an academic social network and modeled researchers' scholarly reading
behavior in order to propose a new and adaptive implicit rating technique for
venues. We present a way to recommend relevant, specialized scholarly venues
using these implicit ratings that can provide quick results, even for new
researchers without a publication history and for emerging scholarly venues
that do not yet have an impact factor. We performed a large-scale experiment
with real data to evaluate the current scholarly recommendation system and
showed that our proposed system achieves better results than the baseline. The
results provide important up-to-the-minute signals that compared with
post-publication usage-based metrics represent a closer reflection of a
researcher's interests.


Distributed Collections of Web Pages in the Wild

  As the Distributed Collection Manager's work on building tools to support
users maintaining collections of changing web-based resources has progressed,
questions about the characteristics of people's collections of web pages have
arisen. Simultaneously, work in the areas of social bookmarking, social news,
and subscription-based technologies have been taking the existence, usage, and
utility of this data for granted with neither investigation into what people
are doing with their collections nor how they are trying to maintain them. In
order to address these concerns, we performed an online user study of 125
individuals from a variety of online and offline communities, such as the
reddit social news user community and the graduate student body in our
department. From this study we were able to examine a user's needs for a system
to manage their web-based distributed collections, how their current tools
affect their ability to maintain their collections, and what the
characteristics of their current practices and problems in maintaining their
web-based collections were. We also present extensions and improvements being
made to the system both in order to adapt DCM for usage in the Ensemble project
and to meet the requirements found by our user study.


Anatomy of Scholarly Information Behavior Patterns in the Wake of
  Academic Social Media Platforms

  As more scholarly content is born digital or converted to a digital format,
digital libraries are becoming increasingly vital to researchers seeking to
leverage scholarly big data for scientific discovery. Although scholarly
products are available in abundance-especially in environments created by the
advent of social networking services-little is known about international
scholarly information needs, information-seeking behavior, or information use.
The purpose of this paper is to address these gaps via an in-depth analysis of
the information needs and information-seeking behavior of researchers, both
students and faculty, at two universities, one in the U.S. and the other in
Qatar. Based on this analysis, the study identifies and describes new behavior
patterns on the part of researchers as they engage in the information-seeking
process. The analysis reveals that the use of academic social networks has
notable effects on various scholarly activities. Further, this study identifies
differences between students and faculty members in regard to their use of
academic social networks, and it identifies differences between researchers
according to discipline. Although the researchers who participated in the
present study represent a range of disciplinary and cultural backgrounds, the
study reports a number of similarities in terms of the researchers' scholarly
activities.


