The Moment Generating function for ray lengths in the Half Gilbert Model  with Rectangular Cells

  In the full rectangular version of Gilbert's tessellation lines extend eitherhorizontally (with east- and west--growing rays) or vertically (north- andsouth--growing rays) from seed points which form a Poisson point process, eachray stopping when another ray is met. In the half rectangular version, east andsouth growing rays do not interact with west and north rays. Using techniquesdeveloped in our previous paper, we derive an exact expression for the momentgenerating function for the ray length distribution in the half rectangularmodel.

Automated transition state theory calculations for high-throughput  kinetics

  A scarcity of known chemical kinetic parameters leads to the use of manyreaction rate estimates, which are not always sufficiently accurate, in theconstruction of detailed kinetic models. To reduce the reliance on theseestimates and improve the accuracy of predictive kinetic models, we havedeveloped a high-throughput, fully automated, reaction rate calculation method,AutoTST. The algorithm integrates automated saddle-point geometry searchmethods and a canonical transition state theory kinetics calculator. Theautomatically calculated reaction rates compare favorably to existing estimatedrates. Comparison against high level theoretical calculations show the newautomated method performs better than rate estimates when the estimate is madeby a poor analogy. The method will improve by accounting for internal rotorcontributions and by improving methods to determine molecular symmetry.

The sub-Jupiter mass transiting exoplanet WASP-11b

  We report the discovery of a sub-Jupiter mass exoplanet transiting amagnitude V=11.7 host star 1SWASP J030928.54+304024.7. A simultaneous fit tothe transit photometry and radial-velocity measurements yield a planet massM_p=0.53+-0.07M_J, radius R_p=0.91^{+0.06}_{-0.03}R_J and an orbital period of3.722465^{+0.000006}_{-0.000008} days. The host star is of spectral type K3V,with a spectral analysis yielding an effective temperature of 4800+-100K andlog g=4.45+-0.2. It is amongst the smallest, least massive and lowestluminosity stars known to harbour a transiting exoplanet. WASP-11b is the thirdleast strongly irradiated transiting exoplanet discovered to date, experiencingan incident flux F_p=1.9x10^8 erg s^{-1} cm^{-2} and having an equilibriumtemperature T_eq=960+-70K.

The low density transiting exoplanet WASP-15b

  We report the discovery of a low-density exoplanet transiting an 11thmagnitude star in the Southern hemisphere. WASP-15b, which orbits its host starwith a period P=3.7520656+-0.0000028d has a mass M_p=0.542+-0.050M_J and radiusR_p=1.428+-0.077R_J, and is therefore the one of least dense transitingexoplanets so far discovered (rho_p=0.247+-0.035g cm^-3). An analysis of thespectrum of the host star shows it to be of spectral type around F5, with aneffective temperature T_eff=6300+-100K and [Fe/H]=-0.17+-0.11.

The automated classification of astronomical lightcurves using Kohonen  self-organising maps

  We apply the technique of self-organising maps (Kohonen 1990) to theautomated classification of singly periodic astronomical lightcurves. We findthat our maps readily distinguish between lightcurve types in both syntheticand real datasets, and that the resulting maps do not depend sensitively on thechosen learning parameters. Automated data analysis techniques are likely to bebecome increasingly important as the size of astronomical datasets continues toincrease, particularly with the advent of ultra-wide-field survey telescopessuch as WASP, RAPTOR and ASAS.

The Calculus Concept Readiness (CCR) Instrument: Assessing Student  Readiness for Calculus

  The Calculus Concept Readiness (CCR) instrument is based on the broad body ofmathematics education research that has revealed major understandings,representational abilities, and reasoning abilities students need to constructin precalculus level courses to be successful in calculus. The CCR is a 25-itemmultiple-choice instrument, and the CCR taxonomy articulates what the CCRassesses. The methodology used to develop and validate the CCR is described andillustrated. Results from administering the CCR as a readiness examination incalculus are provided along with data to guide others in using the CCR as areadiness examination for beginning calculus.

VO2 nanosheets: controlling the THz properties through strain  engineering

  We investigate far-infrared properties of strain engineered vanadium dioxidenanosheets through epitaxial growth on a (100)R TiO2 substrate. The nanosheetsexhibit large uniaxial strain leading to highly uniform and oriented cracksalong the rutile c-axis. Dramatic anisotropy arises for both themetal-insulator transition temperature, which is different from the structuraltransition temperature along the cR axis, and the metallic state conductivity.Detailed analysis reveals a Mott-Hubbard like behavior along the rutile cRaxis.

Quest-V: A Virtualized Multikernel for High-Confidence Systems

  This paper outlines the design of `Quest-V', which is implemented as acollection of separate kernels operating together as a distributed system on achip. Quest-V uses virtualization techniques to isolate kernels and preventlocal faults from affecting remote kernels. This leads to a high-confidencemultikernel approach, where failures of system subcomponents do not render theentire system inoperable. A virtual machine monitor for each kernel keeps trackof shadow page table mappings that control immutable memory accesscapabilities. This ensures a level of security and fault tolerance insituations where a service in one kernel fails, or is corrupted by a maliciousattack. Communication is supported between kernels using shared memory regionsfor message passing. Similarly, device driver data structures are shareablebetween kernels to avoid the need for complex I/O virtualization, orcommunication with a dedicated kernel responsible for I/O. In Quest-V, deviceinterrupts are delivered directly to a kernel, rather than via a monitor thatdetermines the destination. Apart from bootstrapping each kernel, handlingfaults and managing shadow page tables, the monitors are not needed. Thisdiffers from conventional virtual machine systems in which a central monitor,or hypervisor, is responsible for scheduling and management of host resourcesamongst a set of guest kernels. In this paper we show how Quest-V can implementnovel fault isolation and recovery techniques that are not possible withconventional systems. We also show how the costs of using virtualization forisolation of system services does not add undue overheads to the overall systemperformance.

The Impact of Roaming Radicals on the Combustion Properties of  Transportation Fuels

  A systematic investigation on the effects of roaming radical reactions onglobal combustion properties for transportation fuels is presented. Newsoftware was developed that can automatically discover all the possible roamingpathways within a given chemical kinetic mechanism. This novel approach wasapplied to two mechanisms taken from the literature, one for heptane and onefor butanol. Ignition delay times and laminar flame speeds were computed over abroad range of conditions, while testing varying degrees of roaming. As thedegree of roaming is increased, the ignition delays increased, consistent withthe hypothesis that roaming decreases the reactivity of the system. The percentincrease in the ignition delay is strongly temperature dependent, with thelargest effect seen in the negative temperature coefficient regime. Outside ofthis temperature range, the effect of roaming on global combustion propertiesis small, on the order of a few percent for ignition delays and less than apercent for flame speeds. The software that was used to create the newmechanisms and test the effects of roaming on combustion properties are freelyavailable, with detailed tutorials that will enable it to be applied to fuelsother than heptane and butanol.

Star Formation in the Circumnuclear Environment of NGC1068

  We present near-infrared emission line images of the circumnuclear ring inNGC1068. We have measured the Br_gamma fluxes in a number of star formingcomplexes and derived extinctions for each of these by comparison with H_alpha.We investigate the star forming histories of these regions and find that ashort burst of star formation occured co-evally throughout the ring within thelast 30-40 Myr, and perhaps as recently as 4-7 Myr ago. The 1-0 S(1) flux andS(1)/Br_gamma ratios indicate that as well as fluorescence, shock excited H_2emission contributes to the total flux. There is excess H_2 flux to theNorth-West where the ionisation cone crosses the ring, and we have shown it ispossible that the non-stellar continuum from the Seyfert nucleus which producesthe high excitation lines could also be causing fluorescence at the edges ofmolecular clouds in the ring. The nuclear 1-0 S(1) is more extended thanpreviously realised but only along the bar's major axis, and we considermechanisms for its excitation.

Fixed-energy harmonic functions

  We study the map from conductances to edge energies for harmonic functions onfinite graphs with Dirichlet boundary conditions. We prove that for anycompatible acyclic orientation and choice of energies there is a unique choiceof conductances such that the associated harmonic function realizes thoseorientations and energies. We call the associated function enharmonic. Forrational energies and boundary data the Galois group of ${\mathbb Q}^{tr}$ (thetotally real algebraic numbers) over ${\mathbb Q}$ permutes the enharmonicfunctions, acting on the set of compatible acyclic orientations. A consequenceis the non-tileability of certain polygons by rational-area rectangles.  For planar graphs there is an enharmonic conjugate function, together theseform the real and imaginary parts of a "fixed energy" analytic function. In theplanar scaling limit for ${\mathbb Z}^2$ (and the fixed south/westorientation), these functions satisfy a nonlinear analog of the Cauchy-Riemannequations, namely \begin{eqnarray*}u_xv_y &=& 1\\u_yv_x&=&-1.\end{eqnarray*} Wegive an analog of the Riemann mapping theorem for these functions, as well as avariational approach to finding solutions in both the discrete and continuoussettings.

Subdivisions in the Robber Locating Game

  We consider a game in which a cop searches for a moving robber on a graphusing distance probes, which is a slight variation on one introduced by Seager.Carragher, Choi, Delcourt, Erickson and West showed that for any n-vertex graph$G$ there is a winning strategy for the cop on the graph $G^{1/m}$ obtained byreplacing each edge of $G$ by a path of length $m$, if $m \geqslant n$. Theyconjectured that this bound was best possible for complete graphs, but thepresent authors showed that in fact the cop wins on $K^{1/m}$ if and only if $m\geqslant n/2$, for all but a few small values of $n$. In this paper we extendthis result to general graphs by proving that the cop has a winning strategy on$G^{1/m}$ provided $m \geqslant n/2$ for all but a few small values of $n$;this bound is best possible. We also consider replacing the edges of $G$ withpaths of varying lengths.

Interdecadal variability and oceanic thermohaline adjustment

  Changes in the strength of the thermohaline overturning circulation areassociated, by geostrophy, with changes in the east-west pressure differenceacross an ocean basin. The tropical-polar density contrast and the east-westpressure difference are connected by an adjustment process. In flat-bottomedocean models the adjustment is associated with viscous, baroclinic Kelvin wavepropagation. Weak-high latitude stratification leads to the adjustment havingan interdecadal timescale. We reexamine model interdecadal oscillations in thecontext of the adjustment process, for both constant flux and mixed surfaceboundary conditions. Under constant surface flux, interdecadal oscillations areassociated with the passage of a viscous Kelvin wave around the model domain.Our results suggest the oscillations can be self-sustained by perturbations tothe western boundary current arising from the southward boundary wavepropagation. Mixed boundary condition oscillations are characterized by theeastward, cross-basin movement of salinity-dominated density anomalies, and thewestward return of these anomalies along the northern boundary. We suggest thelatter is associated with viscous Kelvin wave propagation. Under both types ofboundary conditions, the strength of the thermohaline overturning and thetropical-polar density contrast vary out of phase. We show how the phaserelationship is related to the boundary wave propagation. The importance ofboundary regions indicates an urgent need to examine the robustness ofinterdecadal variability in models as the resolution is increased, and as therepresentation of the coastal, shelf/slope wave guide is improved. (Abrigedabstract)

Full and Half Gilbert Tessellations with Rectangular Cells

  We investigate the ray-length distributions for two different rectangularversions of Gilbert's tessellation. In the full rectangular version, linesextend either horizontally (with east- and west-growing rays) or vertically(north- and south-growing rays) from seed points which form a Poisson pointprocess, each ray stopping when another ray is met. In the half rectangularversion, east and south growing rays do not interact with west and north rays.For the half rectangular tessellation we compute analytically, via recursion, aseries expansion for the ray-length distribution, whilst for the fullrectangular version we develop an accurate simulation technique, based in parton the stopping-set theory of Zuyev, to accomplish the same. We demonstrate theremarkable fact that plots of the two distributions appear to be identical whenthe intensity of seeds in the half model is twice that in the full model. Ourpaper explores this coincidence mindful of the fact that, for one model, ourresults are from a simulation (with inherent sampling error). We go on todevelop further analytic theory for the half-Gilbert model using stopping-setideas once again, with some novel features. Using our theory, we obtain exactexpressions for the first and second moment of ray length in the half-Gilbertmodel. For all practical purposes, these results can be applied to thefull-Gilbert model as much better approximations than those provided byMackissack and Miles.

The Chandra view of the Largest Quasar Lens SDSS J1029+2623

  We present results from Chandra observations of the cluster lens SDSSJ1029+2623 at z_l=0.58, which is a gravitationally lensed quasar with thelargest known image separation. We clearly detect X-ray emission both from thelensing cluster and the three lensed quasar images. The cluster has an X-raytemperature of kT = 8.1 (+2.0, -1.2) keV and bolometric luminosity of L_X =9.6e44 erg s^-1. Its surface brightness is centered near one of the brightestcluster galaxies, and it is elongated East-West. We identify a subpeakNorth-West of the main peak, which is suggestive of an ongoing merger. Even so,the X-ray mass inferred from the hydrostatic equilibrium assumption appears tobe consistent with the lensing mass from the Einstein radius of the system. Wefind significant absorption in the soft X-ray spectrum of the faintest quasarimage, which can be caused by an intervening material at either the lens orsource redshift. The X-ray flux ratios between the quasar images (aftercorrecting for absorption) are in reasonable agreement with those at opticaland radio wavelengths, and all the flux ratios are inconsistent with thosepredicted by simple mass models. This implies that microlensing effect is notsignificant for this system and dark matter substructure is mainly responsiblefor the anomalous flux ratios.

The Robber Locating game

  We consider a game in which a cop searches for a moving robber on a graphusing distance probes, studied by Carragher, Choi, Delcourt, Erickson and West,which is a slight variation on one introduced by Seager. Carragher, Choi,Delcourt, Erickson and West show that for any fixed graph $G$ there is awinning strategy for the cop on the graph $G^{1/m}$, obtained by replacing eachedge of $G$ by a path of length $m$, if $m$ is sufficiently large. Theyconjecture that the cop does not have a winning strategy on $K_n^{1/m}$ if$m<n$; we show that in fact the cop wins if and only if $m\geqslant n/2$, forall but a few small values of $n$. They also show that the robber can avoidcapture on any graph of girth 3, 4 or 5, and ask whether there is any graph ofgirth 6 on which the cop wins. We show that there is, but that no such graphcan be bipartite; in the process we give a counterexample for their conjecturethat the set of graphs on which the cop wins is closed under the operation ofsubdividing edges. We also give a complete answer to the question of when thecop has a winning strategy on $K_{a,b}^{1/m}$.

ALMA observations of TiO$_2$ around VY Canis Majoris

  Titanium dioxide, TiO$_2$, is a refractory species that could play a crucialrole in the dust-condensation sequence around oxygen-rich evolved stars. Todate, gas phase TiO$_2$ has been detected only in the complex environment ofthe red supergiant VY CMa. We aim to constrain the distribution and excitationof TiO$_2$ around VY CMa in order to clarify its role in dust formation. Weanalyse spectra and channel maps for TiO$_2$ extracted from ALMA scienceverification data. We detect 15 transitions of TiO$_2$, and spatially resolvethe emission for the first time. The maps demonstrate a highly clumpy,anisotropic outflow in which the TiO$_2$ emission likely traces gas exposed tothe stellar radiation field. A roughly east-west oriented, acceleratingbipolar-like structure is found, of which the blue component runs into andbreaks up around a solid continuum component. A distinct tail to the south-westis seen for some transitions, consistent with features seen in the optical andnear-infrared. We find that a significant fraction of TiO$_2$ remains in thegas phase outside the dust-formation zone and suggest that this species mightplay only a minor role in the dust-condensation process around extremeoxygen-rich evolved stars like VY CMa.

The Next Generation Transit Survey - Prototyping Phase

  We present the prototype telescope for the Next Generation Transit Survey,which was built in the UK in 2008/09 and tested on La Palma in the CanaryIslands in 2010. The goals for the prototype system were severalfold: todetermine the level of systematic noise in an NGTS-like system; demonstratethat we can perform photometry at the (sub) millimagnitude level on transittimescales across a wide field; show that it is possible to detect transitingsuper-Earth and Neptune-sized exoplanets and prove the technical feasibility ofthe proposed planet survey. We tested the system for around 100 nights and meteach of the goals above. Several key areas for improvement were highlightedduring the prototyping phase. They have been subsequently addressed in thefinal NGTS facility which was recently commissioned at ESO Cerro Paranal,Chile.

Meta-Data Objects as the Basis for System Evolution

  One of the main factors driving object-oriented software development in theWeb- age is the need for systems to evolve as user requirements change. Acrucial factor in the creation of adaptable systems dealing with changingrequirements is the suitability of the underlying technology in allowing theevolution of the system. A reflective system utilizes an open architecturewhere implicit system aspects are reified to become explicit first-class(meta-data) objects. These implicit system aspects are often fundamentalstructures which are inaccessible and immutable, and their reification asmeta-data objects can serve as the basis for changes and extensions to thesystem, making it self- describing. To address the evolvability issue, thispaper proposes a reflective architecture based on two orthogonal abstractions -model abstraction and information abstraction. In this architecture themodeling abstractions allow for the separation of the description meta-datafrom the system aspects they represent so that they can be managed andversioned independently, asynchronously and explicitly. A practical example ofthis philosophy, the CRISTAL project, is used to demonstrate the use ofmeta-data objects to handle system evolution.

Using Self-Description to Handle Change in Systems

  In the web age systems must be flexible, reconfigurable and adaptable inaddition to being quick to develop. As a consequence, designing systems tocater for change is becoming not only desirable but required by industry.Allowing systems to be self-describing or description-driven is one way toenable these characteristics. To address the issue of evolvability in designingself-describing systems, this paper proposes a pattern-based, object-oriented,description-driven architecture. The proposed architecture embodies fourpillars - first, the adoption of a multi-layered meta-modeling architecture andreflective meta-level architecture, second, the identification of four datamodeling relationships that must be made explicit such that they can beexamined and modified dynamically, third, the identification of five designpatterns which have emerged from practice and have proved essential inproviding reusable building blocks for data management, and fourth, theencoding of the structural properties of the five design patterns by means ofone pattern, the Graph pattern. In this paper the fundamentals of thedescription-driven architecture are described - the multi-layered architectureand reflective meta-level architecture, remaining detail can be found in thecited references. A practical example of this architecture is described,demonstrating the use of description-driven data objects in handling systemevolution.

The Lyman Alpha Forest within The Cosmic Web

  Observations indicate galaxies are distributed in a filament-dominatedweb-like structure; classic examples are the Coma and Perseus-Piscessuperclusters. Numerical experiments at high and low redshift of viablestructure formation theories also show filament-dominance; in particular, thegasdynamical simulations of Lyman alpha clouds at redshifts 2-6 that weconcentrate on here. We understand why this is so in terms of rare events (peakpatches) in the medium and the web pattern of filaments that bridge the gapsbetween the peaks along directions defined by their (oriented) tidal fields. Wepresent an overview of these ideas and their practical application in craftinghigh resolution well-designed simulations. We show the utility of this bytaking a highly filamentary subvolume found in a galactic-scale simulation,compressing its important large scale features onto a handful of numbersdefining galactic-scale peak-patch constraints, which are then used toconstruct constrained initial conditions for a higher resolution simulationappropriate for study of the Lyman alpha forest.

A Component Based Approach to Scientific Workflow Management

  CRISTAL is a distributed scientific workflow system used in the manufacturingand production phases of HEP experiment construction at CERN. The CRISTALproject has studied the use of a description driven approach, using meta-modelling techniques, to manage the evolving needs of a large physicscommunity. Interest from such diverse communities as bio-informatics andmanufacturing has motivated the CRISTAL team to re-engineer the system tocustomize functionality according to end user requirements but maximizesoftware reuse in the process. The next generation CRISTAL vision is to build ageneric component architecture from which a complete software product line canbe generated according to the particular needs of the target enterprise. Thispaper discusses the issues of adopting a component product line based approachand our experiences of software reuse.

Object Serialization and Deserialization Using XML

  Interoperability of potentially heterogeneous databases has been an ongoingresearch issue for a number of years in the database community. With the trendtowards globalization of data location and data access and the consequentrequirement for the coexistence of new data stores with legacy systems, thecooperation and data interchange between data repositories has becomeincreasingly important. The emergence of the eXtensible Markup Language (XML)as a database independent representation for data offers a suitable mechanismfor transporting data between repositories. This paper describes a researchactivity within a group at CERN (called CMS) towards identifying andimplementing database serialization and deserialization methods that can beused to replicate or migrate objects across the network between CERN andworldwide centres using XML to serialize the contents of multiple objectsresident in object-oriented databases.

The Reification of Patterns in the Design of Description-Driven Systems

  To address the issues of reusability and evolvability in designing self-describing systems, this paper proposes a pattern-based, object-oriented,description-driven system architecture. The proposed architecture embodies fourpillars - first, the adoption of a multi-layered meta-modeling architecture andreflective meta-level architecture, second, the identification of four datamodeling relationships that must be made explicit such that they can beexamined and modified dynamically, third, the identification of five designpatterns which have emerged from practice and have proved essential inproviding reusable building blocks for data management, and fourth, theencoding of the structural properties of the five design patterns by means ofone pattern, the Graph pattern. The CRISTAL research project served as thebasis onto which the pattern-based meta-object approach has been applied. Theproposed architecture allows the realization of reusability and adaptability,and is fundamental in the specification of self-describing data managementcomponents.

XML for Domain Viewpoints

  Within research institutions like CERN (European Organization for NuclearResearch) there are often disparate databases (different in format, type andstructure) that users need to access in a domain-specific manner. Users maywant to access a simple unit of information without having to understand detailof the underlying schema or they may want to access the same information fromseveral different sources. It is neither desirable nor feasible to requireusers to have knowledge of these schemas. Instead it would be advantageous if auser could query these sources using his or her own domain models andabstractions of the data. This paper describes the basis of an XML (eXtendedMarkup Language) framework that provides this functionality and is currentlybeing developed at CERN. The goal of the first prototype was to explore thepossibilities of XML for data integration and model management. It shows howXML can be used to integrate data sources. The framework is not only applicableto CERN data sources but other environments too.

Wind speed classification using Dirichlet mixtures

  Wind energy production is very sensitive to instantaneous wind speedfluctuations. Thus rapid variation of wind speed due to changes in the localmeteorological conditions can lead to electrical power variations of the orderof the nominal power output. In small grids, as they exist for example on someislands in the French West Indies, such fluctuations can cause instabilities incase of intermediate power shortages. To palliate these difficulties, it isessential to identify and characterize the wind speed distributions. Thisallows to anticipate the eventuality of power shortage or power surge.Therefore, it is of interest to categorize wind speed fluctuations intodistinct classes and to estimate the probability of a distribution to belong toa class. This paper presents a method for classifying wind speed histograms byestimating a finite mixture of Dirichlet distributions. The SAEM algorithm thatwe use provides a fine distinction between wind speed distribution classes.It's a new nonparametric method for wind speed sequences classification.However, we show that the wind speed distributions in each class correspond tospecific Gram- Charlier densities.

GEANT4 Simulation of a Cosmic Ray Muon Tomography System with  Micro-Pattern Gas Detectors for the Detection of High-Z Materials

  Muon Tomography (MT) based on the measurement of multiple scattering ofatmospheric cosmic ray muons traversing shipping containers is a promisingcandidate for identifying threatening high-Z materials. Sinceposition-sensitive detectors with high spatial resolution should beparticularly suited for tracking muons in an MT application, we propose to usecompact micro-pattern gas detectors, such as Gas Electron Multipliers (GEMs),for muon tomography. We present a detailed GEANT4 simulation of a GEM-based MTstation for various scenarios of threat material detection. Cosmic ray muontracks crossing the material are reconstructed with a Point-Of-Closest-Approachalgorithm to form 3D tomographic images of the target material. We investigateacceptance, Z-discrimination capability, effects of placement of high-Zmaterial and shielding materials inside the cargo, and detector resolutioneffects for such a MT station.

WASP-8b: a retrograde transiting planet in a multiple system

  We report the discovery of WASP-8, a transiting planet of 2.25+-0.08 M_Jup ona strongly inclined eccentric 8.15-day orbit, moving in a retrograde directionto the rotation of its late-G host star. Evidence is found that the star is ina multiple stellar system with two other companions. The dynamical complexityof the system indicates that it may have experienced secular interactions suchas the Kozai mechanism or a formation that differs from the ``classical"disc-migration theory.

Comments on Letter (Phys. Rev. L, Vol.89, No. 10,2002) by D. Shapira and  M. Saltmarsh

  This article focuses on correcting several factual errors and critiques inthe previously published Letter in Phys. Rev. L, Vol. 89, No. 10, 2022, by D.Shapira and M. Saltmarsh. The authors of the Letter did not perform their own"independent" experiments as claimed; they did not perform control experimentswith normal acetone; and, neither did they monitor for tritium. It theirLetter, the authors (D. Shapira and M. Saltmarsh) failed to disclose that thedata they collected actually confirmed our claims of having observedstatistically significant nuclear emissions in chilled, cavitated deuteratedacetone.

Connecting the Reentrant Insulating Phase and the Zero Field  Metal-Insulator Transition in a 2D Hole System

  We present the transport and capacitance measurements of 10nm wide GaAsquantum wells with hole densities around the critical point of the 2Dmetal-insulator transition (critical density $p_c$ down to0.8$\times10^{10}$/cm$^2$, $r_s\sim$36). For metallic hole density $p_c < p<p_c +0.15\times10^{10}$/cm$^2$, a reentrant insulating phase (RIP) is observedbetween the $\nu$=1 quantum Hall state and the zero field metallic state and isattributed to the formation of pinned Wigner crystal. Through studying theevolution of the RIP versus 2D hole density by transport and capacitanceexperiments, we show that the RIP is incompressible and continuously connectedto the zero field insulator, suggesting a similar origin for these two phases.

Understanding the Last Mile - Physics of the Accretion Column

  Accreting X-ray pulsars are among the best observed objects of X-rayastronomy with a rich data set of observational phenomena in the spectral andtiming domain. While the general picture for these sources is well established,the detailed physics behind the observed phenomena are often subject of debate.  We present recent observational, theoretical and modeling results for thestructure and dynamics of the accretion column in these systems. Our resultsindicate the presence of different accretion regimes and possible explanationsfor observed variations of spectral features with luminosity.

The Quest-V Separation Kernel for Mixed Criticality Systems

  Multi- and many-core processors are becoming increasingly popular in embeddedsystems. Many of these processors now feature hardware virtualizationcapabilities, such as the ARM Cortex A15, and x86 processors with Intel VT-x orAMD-V support. Hardware virtualization offers opportunities to partitionphysical resources, including processor cores, memory and I/O devices amongstguest virtual machines. Mixed criticality systems and services can thenco-exist on the same platform in separate virtual machines. However,traditional virtual machine systems are too expensive because of the costs oftrapping into hypervisors to multiplex and manage machine physical resources onbehalf of separate guests. For example, hypervisors are needed to scheduleseparate VMs on physical processor cores. In this paper, we discuss the designof the Quest-V separation kernel, that partitions services of differentcriticalities in separate virtual machines, or sandboxes. Each sandboxencapsulates a subset of machine physical resources that it manages withoutrequiring intervention of a hypervisor. Moreover, a hypervisor is not neededfor normal operation, except to bootstrap the system and establishcommunication channels between sandboxes.

Predictable Migration and Communication in the Quest-V Multikernel

  Quest-V is a system we have been developing from the ground up, withobjectives focusing on safety, predictability and efficiency. It is designed towork on emerging multicore processors with hardware virtualization support.Quest-V is implemented as a "distributed system on a chip" and comprisesmultiple sandbox kernels. Sandbox kernels are isolated from one another inseparate regions of physical memory, having access to a subset of processingcores and I/O devices. This partitioning prevents system failures in onesandbox affecting the operation of other sandboxes. Shared memory channelsmanaged by system monitors enable inter-sandbox communication.  The distributed nature of Quest-V means each sandbox has a separate physicalclock, with all event timings being managed by per-core local timers. Eachsandbox is responsible for its own scheduling and I/O management, withoutrequiring intervention of a hypervisor.  In this paper, we formulate bounds on inter-sandbox communication in theabsence of a global scheduler or global system clock. We also describe howaddress space migration between sandboxes can be guaranteed without violatingservice constraints. Experimental results on a working system show theconditions under which Quest-V performs real-time communication and migration.

Quest-V: A Virtualized Multikernel for Safety-Critical Real-Time Systems

  Modern processors are increasingly featuring multiple cores, as well assupport for hardware virtualization. While these processors are common indesktop and server-class computing, they are less prevalent in embedded andreal-time systems. However, smartphones and tablet PCs are starting to featuremulticore processors with hardware virtualization. If the trend continues, itis possible that future real-time systems will feature more sophisticatedprocessor architectures. Future automotive or avionics systems, for example,could replace complex networks of uniprocessors with consolidated services on asmaller number of multicore processors. Likewise, virtualization could be usedto isolate services and increase the availability of a system even whenfailures occur.  This paper investigates whether advances in modern processor technologiesoffer new opportunities to rethink the design of real-time operating systems.We describe some of the design principles behind Quest-V, which is being usedas an exploratory vehicle for real-time system design on multicore processorswith hardware virtualization capabilities. While not all embedded systemsshould assume such features, a case can be made that more robust,safety-critical systems can be built to use hardware virtualization withoutincurring significant overheads.

Degenerate versus semi-degenerate transport in a correlated 2D hole  system

  It has been puzzling that the resistivity of high mobilitytwo-dimensional(2D) carrier systems in semiconductors with low carrier densityoften exhibits a large increase followed by a decrease when the temperature($T$) is raised above a characteristic temperature comparable with the Fermitemperature ($T_F$). We find that the metallic 2D hole system (2DHS) in GaAsquantum well (QW) has a linear density ($p$) dependent conductivity,$\sigma\approx e\mu^*(p-p_0)$, in both the degenerate (T<<T_F) andsemi-degenerate (T T_F) regimes. The $T$-dependence of $\sigma(p)$ suggeststhat the metallic conduction (d$\sigma$/d$T<$0) at low $T$ is associated withthe increase in $\mu^*$, the effective mobility of itinerant carriers. However,the resistivity decrease in the semi-degenerate regime ($T>T_F$) is originatedfrom the reduced $p_0$, the density of immobile carriers in a two-phasepicture.

Mixing Homomorphisms, Recolourings, and Extending Circular Precolourings

  This work brings together ideas of mixing graph colourings, discretehomotopy, and precolouring extension. A particular focus is circularcolourings. We prove that all the $(k,q)$-colourings of a graph $G$ can beobtained by successively recolouring a single vertex provided $k/q\geq 2col(G)$along the lines of Cereceda, van den Heuvel and Johnson's result for$k$-colourings. We give various bounds for such mixing results and discusstheir sharpness, including cases where the bounds for circular and classicalcolourings coincide. As a corollary, we obtain an Albertson-type extensiontheorem for $(k,q)$-precolourings of circular cliques. Such a result was firstconjectured by Albertson and West. General results on homomorphism mixing arepresented, including a characterization of graphs $G$ for which theendomorphism monoid can be generated through the mixing process. As in similarwork of Brightwell and Winkler, the concept of dismantlability plays a keyrole.

Chandra Observes the End of an Era SN 1987A

  Updated imaging and photometric results from Chandra observations of SN1987A, covering the last 16 years, are presented. We find that the 0.5-2 keVlight curve has remained constant at ~8x10^-12 erg s^-1 cm^-2 since 9500 days,with the 3-8 keV light curve continuing to increase until at least 10000 days.The expansion rate of the ring is found to be energy dependent, such that afterday 6000 the ring expands faster in the 2-10 keV band than it does at energies<2 keV. Images show a reversal of the east-west asymmetry between 7000 and 8000days after the explosion. The latest images suggest the southeastern side ofthe equatorial ring is beginning to fade. Consistent with the latest opticaland infrared results, our Chandra analysis indicates the blast wave is nowleaving the dense equatorial ring, which marks the beginning of a major changein the evolutionary phase of the supernova remnant 1987A.

Reinforcement Learning for UAV Attitude Control

  Autopilot systems are typically composed of an "inner loop" providingstability and control, while an "outer loop" is responsible for mission-levelobjectives, e.g. way-point navigation. Autopilot systems for UAVs arepredominately implemented using Proportional, Integral Derivative (PID) controlsystems, which have demonstrated exceptional performance in stableenvironments. However more sophisticated control is required to operate inunpredictable, and harsh environments. Intelligent flight control systems is anactive area of research addressing limitations of PID control most recentlythrough the use of reinforcement learning (RL) which has had success in otherapplications such as robotics. However previous work has focused primarily onusing RL at the mission-level controller. In this work, we investigate theperformance and accuracy of the inner control loop providing attitude controlwhen using intelligent flight control systems trained with the state-of-the-artRL algorithms, Deep Deterministic Gradient Policy (DDGP), Trust Region PolicyOptimization (TRPO) and Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO). To investigatethese unknowns we first developed an open-source high-fidelity simulationenvironment to train a flight controller attitude control of a quadrotorthrough RL. We then use our environment to compare their performance to that ofa PID controller to identify if using RL is appropriate in high-precision,time-critical flight control.

Evidence of a past disc-disc encounter: HV and DO Tau

  Theory and observations suggest that star formation occurs hierarchically dueto the fragmentation of giant molecular clouds. In this case we would expectsubstructure and enhanced stellar multiplicity in the primordial cluster. Thissubstructure is expected to decay quickly in most environments, howeverhistoric stellar encounters might leave imprints in a protoplanetary disc (PPD)population. In a low density environment such as Taurus, tidal tails fromviolent star-disc or disc-disc encounters might be preserved over time-scalessufficient to be observed. In this work, we investigate the possibility thatjust such an event occured between HV Tau C (itself a component of a triplesystem) and DO Tau $\sim 0.1$ Myr ago, as evidenced by an apparent `bridge'structure evident in the $160$ $\mu$m emission. By modelling the encounterusing smoothed particle hydrodynamics (SPH) we reproduce the main features ofthe observed extended structure (`V'-shaped emission pointing west of HV Tauand a tail-like structure extending east of DO Tau). We suggest that HV Tau andDO Tau formed together in a quadruple system on a scale of $\sim 5000$ au($0.025$ pc).

Detection of a giant white-light flare on an L2.5 dwarf with the Next  Generation Transit Survey

  We present the detection of a $\Delta V\sim$ -10 flare from the ultracoolL2.5 dwarf ULAS J224940.13-011236.9 with the Next Generation Transit Survey(NGTS). The flare was detected in a targeted search of late-type stars in NGTSfull-frame images and represents one of the largest flares ever observed froman ultracool dwarf. This flare also extends the detection of white-light flaresto stars with temperatures below 2000 K. We calculate the energy of the flareto be $3.4^{+0.9}_{-0.7}\times10^{33}$erg, making it an order of magnitude moreenergetic than the Carrington event on the Sun. Our data show how thehigh-cadence NGTS full-frame images can be used to probe white-light flaringbehaviour in the latest spectral types.

SPH P3MG Simulations of the Lyman-alpha Forest

  Our understanding of the Lyman-$\alpha$ forest has received a great boostwith the advent of the Keck Telescope and large 3D hydrodynamical simulations.We present new simulations using the SPH technique with a P^3MG(Particle-Particle Particle-MultiGrid) non-periodic gravity solver. Our methodemploys a high resolution (1 kpc) inner volume, essential for capturing thecomplex gas physics, a larger low resolution volume, essential for correctlarger scale tidal fields and a self-consistently applied, uniform tidal fieldto model the influence of ultra long waves. We include a photoionizing UV fluxand relevant atomic cooling processes. We use constrained field realisations toprobe a selection of environments and construct a statistical samplerepresentative of the wider universe. We generate artificial Lyman-$\alpha$spectra and fit Voigt profiles. We examine the importance of (1) thephotoionizing flux level and history, (2) tidal environment and (3) differingcosmologies, including CDM and CDM+{$\Lambda$}. With an appropriate choice forthe UV flux, we find that the data is fit quite well if the rms densitycontrast is $\sim$ 1 at $z\sim 3$ on galaxy scales.

The X-ray eclipse of OY Car resolved with XMM-Newton: X-ray emission  from the polar regions of the white dwarf

  We present the XMM-Newton X-ray eclipse lightcurve of the dwarf nova OY Car.The eclipse ingress and egress are well resolved for the first time in anydwarf nova placing strong constraints on the size and location of the X-rayemitting region. We find good fits to a simple linear eclipse model, givingingress/egress durations of 30+/-3 sec. Remarkably this is shorter than theingress/egress duration of the sharp eclipse in the optical as measured by Woodet al. (1989) and ascribed to the white dwarf (43+/-2 sec). We also find thatthe X-ray eclipse is narrower than the optical eclipse by 14+/-2 sec, which isprecisely the difference required to align the second and third contact pointsof the X-ray and optical eclipses. We discuss these results and conclude thatX-ray emission in OY Car most likely arises from the polar regions of the whitedwarf.  Our data were originally reported by Ramsay et al (2001), but they did notmake a quantitative measurement of eclipse parameters. We have also correctedimportant timing anomalies present in the data available at that time.

Magnetic field in Cepheus A as deduced from OH maser polarimetric  observations

  We present the results of MERLIN polarization mapping of OH masers at 1665and 1667 MHz towards the Cepheus A star-forming region. The maser emission isspread over a region of 6 arcsec by 10 arcsec, twice the extent previouslydetected. In contrast to the 22 GHz water masers, the OH masers associated withH II regions show neither clear velocity gradients nor regular structures. Weidentified ten Zeeman pairs which imply a magnetic field strength along theline-of-sight from -17.3 to +12.7 mG. The magnetic field is organised on thearcsecond scale, pointing towards us in the west and away from us in the eastside. The linearly polarized components, detected for the first time, showregularities in the polarization position angles depending on their position.The electric vectors of OH masers observed towards the outer parts of H IIregions are consistent with the interstellar magnetic field orientation, whilethose seen towards the centres of H II regions are parallel to the radio-jets.A Zeeman quartet inside a southern H II region has now been monitored for 25years; we confirm that the magnetic field decays monotonically over thatperiod.

Large-scale Structure and Dynamics of the Most X-ray Luminous Galaxy  Cluster Known -- RX J1347-1145

  We present photometric, spectroscopic and weak lensing analysis of thelarge-scale structure and dynamics of the most X-ray luminous galaxy clusterknown, RX J1347-1145, at z=0.451. We spectroscopically confirmed 47 new memberswith LDSS3 on the Magellan telescope. Together with previously known members,we measure a new velocity dispersion of 1163(+/-97) km/s. The mass inferredfrom our velocity dispersion is M200 = 1.16^{+0.32}_{-0.27}x10^{15} solar mass,with r200=1.85Mpc, under the assumption of a singular isothermal sphere. Wealso present a weak lensing analysis using deep CFHT data on this cluster, andfind a deprojected mass of 1.47^{+0.46}_{-0.43}x10^{15} solar mass within r200,in excellent agreement with our dynamical estimate. Thus, our new dynamicalmass estimate is consistent with that from weak lensing and X-ray studies inthe literature, resolving a previously claimed discrepancy. We photometricallydetect and spectroscopically confirm another massive cluster withsigma=780(+/-100) km/s and M200=3.4^{+1.4}_{-1.1}x10^{14} solar mass ~7Mpcsouth-west of RX J1347-1145, which we refer to as RXJ1347-SW. Our spectroscopicsurvey reveals a possible excess of galaxies in velocity space in the regionbetween RX J1347-1145 and RXJ1347-SW; comparing with simulations, this excessappears consistent with that expected from a large filamentary structure tracedby galaxies connecting these two clusters.

The Next Generation Transit Survey (NGTS)

  The Next Generation Transit Survey (NGTS) is a new ground-based sky surveydesigned to find transiting Neptunes and super-Earths. By covering at leastsixteen times the sky area of Kepler we will find small planets around starsthat are sufficiently bright for radial velocity confirmation, massdetermination and atmospheric characterisation. The NGTS instrument willconsist of an array of twelve independently pointed 20cm telescopes fitted withred-sensitive CCD cameras. It will be constructed at the ESO ParanalObservatory, thereby benefiting from the very best photometric conditions aswell as follow up synergy with the VLT and E-ELT. Our design has been verifiedthrough the operation of two prototype instruments, demonstrating white noisecharacteristics to sub-mmag photometric precision. Detailed simulations showthat about thirty bright super-Earths and up to two hundred Neptunes could bediscovered. Our science operations are due to begin in 2014.

The HD 40307 Planetary System: Super-Earths or Mini-Neptunes?

  Three planets with minimum masses less than 10 Earth masses orbit the star HD40307, suggesting these planets may be rocky. However, with only radialvelocity data, it is impossible to determine if these planets are rocky orgaseous. Here we exploit various dynamical features of the system in order toassess the physical properties of the planets. Observations allow for circularorbits, but a numerical integration shows that the eccentricities must be atleast 0.0001. Also, planets b and c are so close to the star that tidal effectsare significant. If planet b has tidal parameters similar to the terrestrialplanets in the Solar System and a remnant eccentricity larger than 0.001, then,going back in time, the system would have been unstable within the lifetime ofthe star (which we estimate to be 6.1 +/- 1.6 Gyr). Moreover, if theeccentricities are that large and the inner planet is rocky, then its tidalheating may be an order of magnitude greater than extremely volcanic Io, on aper unit surface area basis. If planet b is not terrestrial, e.g. Neptune-like,these physical constraints would not apply. This analysis suggests the planetsare not terrestrial-like, and are more like our giant planets. In either case,we find that the planets probably formed at larger radii and migrated early-on(via disk interactions) into their current orbits. This study demonstrates howthe orbital and dynamical properties of exoplanet systems may be used toconstrain the planets' physical properties.

Textual Analysis for Studying Chinese Historical Documents and Literary  Novels

  We analyzed historical and literary documents in Chinese to gain insightsinto research issues, and overview our studies which utilized four differentsources of text materials in this paper. We investigated the history ofconcepts and transliterated words in China with the Database for the Study ofModern China Thought and Literature, which contains historical documents aboutChina between 1830 and 1930. We also attempted to disambiguate names that wereshared by multiple government officers who served between 618 and 1912 and wererecorded in Chinese local gazetteers. To showcase the potentials and challengesof computer-assisted analysis of Chinese literatures, we explored someinteresting yet non-trivial questions about two of the Four Great ClassicalNovels of China: (1) Which monsters attempted to consume the Buddhist monkXuanzang in the Journey to the West (JTTW), which was published in the 16thcentury, (2) Which was the most powerful monster in JTTW, and (3) Which majorrole smiled the most in the Dream of the Red Chamber, which was published inthe 18th century. Similar approaches can be applied to the analysis and studyof modern documents, such as the newspaper articles published about the 228incident that occurred in 1947 in Taiwan.

Analyzing the Flux Anomalies of the Large-Separation Lensed Quasar SDSS  J1029+2623

  Using a high resolution radio image, we successfully resolve the two foldimage components B and C of the quasar lens system SDSS J1029+2623. The fluxanomalies associated with these two components in the optical regime persist,albeit less strongly, in our radio observations, suggesting that the clustermust be modeled by something more than a single central potential. We arguethat placing substructure close to one of the components can account for a fluxanomaly with negligible changes in the component positions. Our best fit modelhas a substructure mass of ~10^8 solar masses up to the mass-sheet degeneracy,located roughly 0.1 arcsecs West and 0.1 arcsecs North of component B. Wedemonstrate that a positional offset between the centers of the sourcecomponents can explain the differences between the optical and radio fluxratios.

Frontier Fields: Subaru Weak-Lensing Analysis of the Merging Galaxy  Cluster A2744

  We present a weak-lensing analysis of the merging {\em Frontier Fields} (FF)cluster Abell~2744 using new Subaru/Suprime-Cam imaging. The wide-field lensingmass distribution reveals this cluster is comprised of four distinctsubstructures. Simultaneously modeling the two-dimensional reduced shear fieldusing a combination of a Navarro--Frenk--White (NFW) model for the main coreand truncated NFW models for the subhalos, we determine their masses andlocations. The total mass of the system is constrained as $M_\mathrm{200c} =(2.06\pm0.42)\times10^{15}\,M_\odot$. The most massive clump is the southerncomponent with $M_\mathrm{200c} = (7.7\pm3.4)\times10^{14}\,M_\odot$, followedby the western substructure ($M_\mathrm{200c} =(4.5\pm2.0)\times10^{14}\,M_\odot$) and two smaller substructures to thenortheast ($M_\mathrm{200c} = (2.8\pm1.6)\times10^{14}\,M_\odot$) and northwest($M_\mathrm{200c} = (1.9\pm1.2)\times10^{14}\,M_\odot$). The presence of thefour substructures supports the picture of multiple mergers. Using a compositeof hydrodynamical binary simulations we explain this complicated system withoutthe need for a "slingshot" effect to produce the northwest X-ray interloper, aspreviously proposed. The locations of the substructures appear to be offsetfrom both the gas ($87^{+34}_{-28}$ arcsec, 90\% CL) and the galaxies($72^{+34}_{-53}$ arcsec, 90\% CL) in the case of the northwestern and westernsubhalos. To confirm or refute these findings, high resolution space-basedobservations extending beyond the current FF limited coverage to the west andnorthwestern area are essential.

Mixed-Criticality Scheduling with I/O

  This paper addresses the problem of scheduling tasks with differentcriticality levels in the presence of I/O requests. In mixed-criticalityscheduling, higher criticality tasks are given precedence over those of lowercriticality when it is impossible to guarantee the schedulability of all tasks.While mixed-criticality scheduling has gained attention in recent years, mostapproaches typically assume a periodic task model. This assumption does notalways hold in practice, especially for real-time and embedded systems thatperform I/O. For example, many tasks block on I/O requests until devices signaltheir completion via interrupts; both the arrival of interrupts and the wakingof blocked tasks can be aperiodic. In our prior work, we developed a schedulingtechnique in the Quest real-time operating system, which integrates thetime-budgeted management of I/O operations with Sporadic Server scheduling oftasks. This paper extends our previous scheduling approach with support formixed-criticality tasks and I/O requests on the same processing core. Resultsshow the effective schedulability of different task sets in the presence of I/Orequests is superior in our approach compared to traditional methods thatmanage I/O using techniques such as Sporadic Servers.

