Evolving Deep Neural Networks

  The success of deep learning depends on finding an architecture to fit the
task. As deep learning has scaled up to more challenging tasks, the
architectures have become difficult to design by hand. This paper proposes an
automated method, CoDeepNEAT, for optimizing deep learning architectures
through evolution. By extending existing neuroevolution methods to topology,
components, and hyperparameters, this method achieves results comparable to
best human designs in standard benchmarks in object recognition and language
modeling. It also supports building a real-world application of automated image
captioning on a magazine website. Given the anticipated increases in available
computing power, evolution of deep networks is promising approach to
constructing deep learning applications in the future.


Creative AI Through Evolutionary Computation

  In the last decade or so we have seen tremendous progress in Artificial
Intelligence (AI). AI is now in the real world, powering applications that have
a large practical impact. Most of it is based on modeling, i.e. machine
learning of statistical models that make it possible to predict what the right
decision might be in future situations. The next step for AI is machine
creativity, i.e. tasks where the correct, or even good, solutions are not
known, but need to be discovered. Methods for machine creativity have existed
for decades. I believe we are now in a similar situation as deep learning was a
few years ago: with the million-fold increase in computational power, those
methods can now be used to scale up to creativity in real-world tasks. In
particular, Evolutionary Computation is in a unique position to take advantage
of that power, and become the next deep learning.


Conversion Rate Optimization through Evolutionary Computation

  Conversion optimization means designing a web interface so that as many users
as possible take a desired action on it, such as register or purchase. Such
design is usually done by hand, testing one change at a time through A/B
testing, or a limited number of combinations through multivariate testing,
making it possible to evaluate only a small fraction of designs in a vast
design space. This paper describes Sentient Ascend, an automatic conversion
optimization system that uses evolutionary optimization to create effective web
interface designs. Ascend makes it possible to discover and utilize
interactions between the design elements that are difficult to identify
otherwise. Moreover, evaluation of design candidates is done in parallel
online, i.e. with a large number of real users interacting with the system. A
case study on an existing media site shows that significant improvements (i.e.
over 43%) are possible beyond human design. Ascend can therefore be seen as an
approach to massively multivariate conversion optimization, based on a
massively parallel interactive evolution.


Reuse of Neural Modules for General Video Game Playing

  A general approach to knowledge transfer is introduced in which an agent
controlled by a neural network adapts how it reuses existing networks as it
learns in a new domain. Networks trained for a new domain can improve their
performance by routing activation selectively through previously learned neural
structure, regardless of how or for what it was learned. A neuroevolution
implementation of this approach is presented with application to
high-dimensional sequential decision-making domains. This approach is more
general than previous approaches to neural transfer for reinforcement learning.
It is domain-agnostic and requires no prior assumptions about the nature of
task relatedness or mappings. The method is analyzed in a stochastic version of
the Arcade Learning Environment, demonstrating that it improves performance in
some of the more complex Atari 2600 games, and that the success of transfer can
be predicted based on a high-level characterization of game dynamics.


Discovering Evolutionary Stepping Stones through Behavior Domination

  Behavior domination is proposed as a tool for understanding and harnessing
the power of evolutionary systems to discover and exploit useful stepping
stones. Novelty search has shown promise in overcoming deception by collecting
diverse stepping stones, and several algorithms have been proposed that combine
novelty with a more traditional fitness measure to refocus search and help
novelty search scale to more complex domains. However, combinations of novelty
and fitness do not necessarily preserve the stepping stone discovery that
novelty search affords. In several existing methods, competition between
solutions can lead to an unintended loss of diversity. Behavior domination
defines a class of algorithms that avoid this problem, while inheriting
theoretical guarantees from multiobjective optimization. Several existing
algorithms are shown to be in this class, and a new algorithm is introduced
based on fast non-dominated sorting. Experimental results show that this
algorithm outperforms existing approaches in domains that contain useful
stepping stones, and its advantage is sustained with scale. The conclusion is
that behavior domination can help illuminate the complex dynamics of
behavior-driven search, and can thus lead to the design of more scalable and
robust algorithms.


Increasing Behavioral Complexity for Evolved Virtual Creatures with the
  ESP Method

  Since their introduction in 1994 (Sims), evolved virtual creatures (EVCs)
have employed the coevolution of morphology and control to produce high-impact
work in multiple fields, including graphics, evolutionary computation,
robotics, and artificial life. However, in contrast to fixed-morphology
creatures, there has been no clear increase in the behavioral complexity of
EVCs in those two decades. This paper describes a method for moving beyond this
limit, making use of high-level human input in the form of a syllabus of
intermediate learning tasks--along with mechanisms for preservation, reuse, and
combination of previously learned tasks. This method--named ESP for its three
components: encapsulation, syllabus, and pandemonium--is presented in two
complementary versions: Fast ESP, which constrains later morphological changes
to achieve linear growth in computation time as behavioral complexity is added,
and General ESP, which allows this restriction to be removed when sufficient
computational resources are available. Experiments demonstrate that the ESP
method allows evolved virtual creatures to reach new levels of behavioral
complexity in the co-evolution of morphology and control, approximately
doubling the previous state of the art.


Beyond Shared Hierarchies: Deep Multitask Learning through Soft Layer
  Ordering

  Existing deep multitask learning (MTL) approaches align layers shared between
tasks in a parallel ordering. Such an organization significantly constricts the
types of shared structure that can be learned. The necessity of parallel
ordering for deep MTL is first tested by comparing it with permuted ordering of
shared layers. The results indicate that a flexible ordering can enable more
effective sharing, thus motivating the development of a soft ordering approach,
which learns how shared layers are applied in different ways for different
tasks. Deep MTL with soft ordering outperforms parallel ordering methods across
a series of domains. These results suggest that the power of deep MTL comes
from learning highly general building blocks that can be assembled to meet the
demands of each task.


Enhancing Evolutionary Conversion Rate Optimization via Multi-armed
  Bandit Algorithms

  Conversion rate optimization means designing web interfaces such that more
visitors perform a desired action (such as register or purchase) on the site.
One promising approach, implemented in Sentient Ascend, is to optimize the
design using evolutionary algorithms, evaluating each candidate design online
with actual visitors. Because such evaluations are costly and noisy, several
challenges emerge: How can available visitor traffic be used most efficiently?
How can good solutions be identified most reliably? How can a high conversion
rate be maintained during optimization? This paper proposes a new technique to
address these issues. Traffic is allocated to candidate solutions using a
multi-armed bandit algorithm, using more traffic on those evaluations that are
most useful. In a best-arm identification mode, the best candidate can be
identified reliably at the end of evolution, and in a campaign mode, the
overall conversion rate can be optimized throughout the entire evolution
process. Multi-armed bandit algorithms thus improve performance and reliability
of machine discovery in noisy real-world environments.


Enhanced Optimization with Composite Objectives and Novelty Selection

  An important benefit of multi-objective search is that it maintains a diverse
population of candidates, which helps in deceptive problems in particular. Not
all diversity is useful, however: candidates that optimize only one objective
while ignoring others are rarely helpful. This paper proposes a solution: The
original objectives are replaced by their linear combinations, thus focusing
the search on the most useful tradeoffs between objectives. To compensate for
the loss of diversity, this transformation is accompanied by a selection
mechanism that favors novelty. In the highly deceptive problem of discovering
minimal sorting networks, this approach finds better solutions, and finds them
faster and more consistently than standard methods. It is therefore a promising
approach to solving deceptive problems through multi-objective optimization.


Evolutionary Architecture Search For Deep Multitask Networks

  Multitask learning, i.e. learning several tasks at once with the same neural
network, can improve performance in each of the tasks. Designing deep neural
network architectures for multitask learning is a challenge: There are many
ways to tie the tasks together, and the design choices matter. The size and
complexity of this problem exceeds human design ability, making it a compelling
domain for evolutionary optimization. Using the existing state of the art soft
ordering architecture as the starting point, methods for evolving the modules
of this architecture and for evolving the overall topology or routing between
modules are evaluated in this paper. A synergetic approach of evolving custom
routings with evolved, shared modules for each task is found to be very
powerful, significantly improving the state of the art in the Omniglot
multitask, multialphabet character recognition domain. This result demonstrates
how evolution can be instrumental in advancing deep neural network and complex
system design in general.


Pseudo-task Augmentation: From Deep Multitask Learning to Intratask
  Sharing---and Back

  Deep multitask learning boosts performance by sharing learned structure
across related tasks. This paper adapts ideas from deep multitask learning to
the setting where only a single task is available. The method is formalized as
pseudo-task augmentation, in which models are trained with multiple decoders
for each task. Pseudo-tasks simulate the effect of training towards
closely-related tasks drawn from the same universe. In a suite of experiments,
pseudo-task augmentation is shown to improve performance on single-task
learning problems. When combined with multitask learning, further improvements
are achieved, including state-of-the-art performance on the CelebA dataset,
showing that pseudo-task augmentation and multitask learning have complementary
value. All in all, pseudo-task augmentation is a broadly applicable and
efficient way to boost performance in deep learning systems.


From Nodes to Networks: Evolving Recurrent Neural Networks

  Gated recurrent networks such as those composed of Long Short-Term Memory
(LSTM) nodes have recently been used to improve state of the art in many
sequential processing tasks such as speech recognition and machine translation.
However, the basic structure of the LSTM node is essentially the same as when
it was first conceived 25 years ago. Recently, evolutionary and reinforcement
learning mechanisms have been employed to create new variations of this
structure. This paper proposes a new method, evolution of a tree-based encoding
of the gated memory nodes, and shows that it makes it possible to explore new
variations more effectively than other methods. The method discovers nodes with
multiple recurrent paths and multiple memory cells, which lead to significant
improvement in the standard language modeling benchmark task. The paper also
shows how the search process can be speeded up by training an LSTM network to
estimate performance of candidate structures, and by encouraging exploration of
novel solutions. Thus, evolutionary design of complex neural network structures
promises to improve performance of deep learning architectures beyond human
ability to do so.


A Comparison of the Taguchi Method and Evolutionary Optimization in
  Multivariate Testing

  Multivariate testing has recently emerged as a promising technique in web
interface design. In contrast to the standard A/B testing, multivariate
approach aims at evaluating a large number of values in a few key variables
systematically. The Taguchi method is a practical implementation of this idea,
focusing on orthogonal combinations of values. This paper evaluates an
alternative method: population-based search, i.e. evolutionary optimization.
Its performance is compared to that of the Taguchi method in several simulated
conditions, including an orthogonal one designed to favor the Taguchi method,
and two realistic conditions with dependences between variables. Evolutionary
optimization is found to perform significantly better especially in the
realistic conditions, suggesting that it forms a good approach for web
interface design in the future.


Functional Generative Design of Mechanisms with Recurrent Neural
  Networks and Novelty Search

  Consumer-grade 3D printers have made it easier to fabricate aesthetic objects
and static assemblies, opening the door to automated design of such objects.
However, while static designs are easily produced with 3D printing, functional
designs with moving parts are more difficult to generate: The search space is
too high-dimensional, the resolution of the 3D-printed parts is not adequate,
and it is difficult to predict the physical behavior of imperfect 3D-printed
mechanisms. An example challenge is to produce a diverse set of reliable and
effective gear mechanisms that could be used after production without extensive
post-processing. To meet this challenge, an indirect encoding based on a
Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) is created and evolved using novelty search. The
elite solutions of each generation are 3D printed to evaluate their functional
performance on a physical test platform. The system is able to discover
sequential design rules that are difficult to discover with other methods.
Compared to direct encoding evolved with Genetic Algorithms (GAs), its designs
are geometrically more diverse and functionally more effective. It therefore
forms a promising foundation for the generative design of 3D-printed,
functional mechanisms.


Fault prediction in aircraft engines using Self-Organizing Maps

  Aircraft engines are designed to be used during several tens of years. Their
maintenance is a challenging and costly task, for obvious security reasons. The
goal is to ensure a proper operation of the engines, in all conditions, with a
zero probability of failure, while taking into account aging. The fact that the
same engine is sometimes used on several aircrafts has to be taken into account
too. The maintenance can be improved if an efficient procedure for the
prediction of failures is implemented. The primary source of information on the
health of the engines comes from measurement during flights. Several variables
such as the core speed, the oil pressure and quantity, the fan speed, etc. are
measured, together with environmental variables such as the outside
temperature, altitude, aircraft speed, etc. In this paper, we describe the
design of a procedure aiming at visualizing successive data measured on
aircraft engines. The data are multi-dimensional measurements on the engines,
which are projected on a self-organizing map in order to allow us to follow the
trajectories of these data over time. The trajectories consist in a succession
of points on the map, each of them corresponding to the two-dimensional
projection of the multi-dimensional vector of engine measurements. Analyzing
the trajectories aims at visualizing any deviation from a normal behavior,
making it possible to anticipate an operation failure.


Functional Generative Design: An Evolutionary Approach to 3D-Printing

  Consumer-grade printers are widely available, but their ability to print
complex objects is limited. Therefore, new designs need to be discovered that
serve the same function, but are printable. A representative such problem is to
produce a working, reliable mechanical spring. The proposed methodology for
discovering solutions to this problem consists of three components: First, an
effective search space is learned through a variational autoencoder (VAE);
second, a surrogate model for functional designs is built; and third, a genetic
algorithm is used to simultaneously update the hyperparameters of the surrogate
and to optimize the designs using the updated surrogate. Using a car-launcher
mechanism as a test domain, spring designs were 3D-printed and evaluated to
update the surrogate model. Two experiments were then performed: First, the
initial set of designs for the surrogate-based optimizer was selected randomly
from the training set that was used for training the VAE model, which resulted
in an exploitative search behavior. On the other hand, in the second
experiment, the initial set was composed of more uniformly selected designs
from the same training set and a more explorative search behavior was observed.
Both of the experiments showed that the methodology generates interesting,
successful, and reliable spring geometries robust to the noise inherent in the
3D printing process. The methodology can be generalized to other functional
design problems, thus making consumer-grade 3D printing more versatile.


Evolutionary Neural AutoML for Deep Learning

  Deep neural networks (DNNs) have produced state-of-the-art results in many
benchmarks and problem domains. However, the success of DNNs depends on the
proper configuration of its architecture and hyperparameters. Such a
configuration is difficult and as a result, DNNs are often not used to their
full potential. In addition, DNNs in commercial applications often need to
satisfy real-world design constraints such as size or number of parameters. To
make configuration easier, automatic machine learning (AutoML) systems for deep
learning have been developed, focusing mostly on optimization of
hyperparameters.
  This paper takes AutoML a step further. It introduces an evolutionary AutoML
framework called LEAF that not only optimizes hyperparameters but also network
architectures and the size of the network. LEAF makes use of both
state-of-the-art evolutionary algorithms (EAs) and distributed computing
frameworks. Experimental results on medical image classification and natural
language analysis show that the framework can be used to achieve
state-of-the-art performance. In particular, LEAF demonstrates that
architecture optimization provides a significant boost over hyperparameter
optimization, and that networks can be minimized at the same time with little
drop in performance. LEAF therefore forms a foundation for democratizing and
improving AI, as well as making AI practical in future applications.


Hierarchical Policy Design for Sample-Efficient Learning of Robot Table
  Tennis Through Self-Play

  Training robots with physical bodies requires developing new methods and
action representations that allow the learning agents to explore the space of
policies efficiently. This work studies sample-efficient learning of complex
policies in the context of robot table tennis. It incorporates learning into a
hierarchical control framework using a model-free strategy layer (which
requires complex reasoning about opponents that is difficult to do in a
model-based way), model-based prediction of external objects (which are
difficult to control directly with analytic control methods, but governed by
learnable and relatively simple laws of physics), and analytic controllers for
the robot itself. Human demonstrations are used to train dynamics models, which
together with the analytic controller allow any robot that is physically
capable to play table tennis without training episodes. Using only about 7,000
demonstrated trajectories, a striking policy can hit ball targets with about 20
cm error. Self-play is used to train cooperative and adversarial strategies on
top of model-based striking skills trained from human demonstrations. After
only about 24,000 strikes in self-play the agent learns to best exploit the
human dynamics models for longer cooperative games. Further experiments
demonstrate that more flexible variants of the policy can discover new strikes
not demonstrated by humans and achieve higher performance at the expense of
lower sample-efficiency. Experiments are carried out in a virtual reality
environment using sensory observations that are obtainable in the real world.
The high sample-efficiency demonstrated in the evaluations show that the
proposed method is suitable for learning directly on physical robots without
transfer of models or policies from simulation.
  Supplementary material available at
https://sites.google.com/view/robottabletennis


The Surprising Creativity of Digital Evolution: A Collection of
  Anecdotes from the Evolutionary Computation and Artificial Life Research
  Communities

  Biological evolution provides a creative fount of complex and subtle
adaptations, often surprising the scientists who discover them. However,
because evolution is an algorithmic process that transcends the substrate in
which it occurs, evolution's creativity is not limited to nature. Indeed, many
researchers in the field of digital evolution have observed their evolving
algorithms and organisms subverting their intentions, exposing unrecognized
bugs in their code, producing unexpected adaptations, or exhibiting outcomes
uncannily convergent with ones in nature. Such stories routinely reveal
creativity by evolution in these digital worlds, but they rarely fit into the
standard scientific narrative. Instead they are often treated as mere obstacles
to be overcome, rather than results that warrant study in their own right. The
stories themselves are traded among researchers through oral tradition, but
that mode of information transmission is inefficient and prone to error and
outright loss. Moreover, the fact that these stories tend to be shared only
among practitioners means that many natural scientists do not realize how
interesting and lifelike digital organisms are and how natural their evolution
can be. To our knowledge, no collection of such anecdotes has been published
before. This paper is the crowd-sourced product of researchers in the fields of
artificial life and evolutionary computation who have provided first-hand
accounts of such cases. It thus serves as a written, fact-checked collection of
scientifically important and even entertaining stories. In doing so we also
present here substantial evidence that the existence and importance of
evolutionary surprises extends beyond the natural world, and may indeed be a
universal property of all complex evolving systems.


