Active Learning of Linear Embeddings for Gaussian Processes

  We propose an active learning method for discovering low-dimensional
structure in high-dimensional Gaussian process (GP) tasks. Such problems are
increasingly frequent and important, but have hitherto presented severe
practical difficulties. We further introduce a novel technique for
approximately marginalizing GP hyperparameters, yielding marginal predictions
robust to hyperparameter mis-specification. Our method offers an efficient
means of performing GP regression, quadrature, or Bayesian optimization in
high-dimensional spaces.


Propagation Kernels

  We introduce propagation kernels, a general graph-kernel framework for
efficiently measuring the similarity of structured data. Propagation kernels
are based on monitoring how information spreads through a set of given graphs.
They leverage early-stage distributions from propagation schemes such as random
walks to capture structural information encoded in node labels, attributes, and
edge information. This has two benefits. First, off-the-shelf propagation
schemes can be used to naturally construct kernels for many graph types,
including labeled, partially labeled, unlabeled, directed, and attributed
graphs. Second, by leveraging existing efficient and informative propagation
schemes, propagation kernels can be considerably faster than state-of-the-art
approaches without sacrificing predictive performance. We will also show that
if the graphs at hand have a regular structure, for instance when modeling
image or video data, one can exploit this regularity to scale the kernel
computation to large databases of graphs with thousands of nodes. We support
our contributions by exhaustive experiments on a number of real-world graphs
from a variety of application domains.


Detecting Damped Lyman-$α$ Absorbers with Gaussian Processes

  We develop an automated technique for detecting damped Lyman-$\alpha$
absorbers (DLAs) along spectroscopic lines of sight to quasi-stellar objects
(QSOs or quasars). The detection of DLAs in large-scale spectroscopic surveys
such as SDSS-III sheds light on galaxy formation at high redshift, showing the
nucleation of galaxies from diffuse gas. We use nearly 50 000 QSO spectra to
learn a novel tailored Gaussian process model for quasar emission spectra,
which we apply to the DLA detection problem via Bayesian model selection. We
propose models for identifying an arbitrary number of DLAs along a given line
of sight. We demonstrate our method's effectiveness using a large-scale
validation experiment, with excellent performance. We also provide a catalog of
our results applied to 162 858 spectra from SDSS-III data release 12.


Statistical properties of damped Lyman-alpha systems from Sloan Digital
  Sky Survey DR12

  We present new estimates for the statistical properties of damped
Lyman-$\alpha$ absorbers (DLAs). We compute the column density distribution
function at $z>2$, the line density, $\mathrm{d}N/\mathrm{d}X$, and the neutral
hydrogen density, $\Omega_\mathrm{DLA}$. Our estimates are derived from the DLA
catalogue of Garnett 2016, which uses the SDSS-III DR12 quasar spectroscopic
survey. This catalogue provides a probability that a given spectrum contains a
DLA, allowing us to use even the noisiest data without biasing our results and
thus substantially increase our sample size. We measure a non-zero column
density distribution function at $95\%$ confidence for all column densities
$N_\mathrm{HI} < 5\times 10^{22}$ cm$^{-2}$. We make the first measurements
from SDSS of $\mathrm{d}N/\mathrm{d}X$ and $\Omega_\mathrm{DLA}$ at $z>4$. We
show that our results are insensitive to the signal-to-noise ratio of the
spectra, but that there is a residual dependence on quasar redshift for
$z<2.5$, which may be due to remaining systematics in our analysis.


Bayesian Optimal Active Search and Surveying

  We consider two active binary-classification problems with atypical
objectives. In the first, active search, our goal is to actively uncover as
many members of a given class as possible. In the second, active surveying, our
goal is to actively query points to ultimately predict the proportion of a
given class. Numerous real-world problems can be framed in these terms, and in
either case typical model-based concerns such as generalization error are only
of secondary importance.
  We approach these problems via Bayesian decision theory; after choosing
natural utility functions, we derive the optimal policies. We provide three
contributions. In addition to introducing the active surveying problem, we
extend previous work on active search in two ways. First, we prove a novel
theoretical result, that less-myopic approximations to the optimal policy can
outperform more-myopic approximations by any arbitrary degree. We then derive
bounds that for certain models allow us to reduce (in practice dramatically)
the exponential search space required by a naive implementation of the optimal
policy, enabling further lookahead while still ensuring that optimal decisions
are always made.


Newly Identified Star Clusters in M33. II. Radial HST/ACS Fields

  We present integrated photometry and color-magnitude diagrams for 161 star
clusters in M33, of which 115 were previously uncataloged, using the Advanced
Camera For Surveys Wide Field Channel onboard the Hubble Space Telescope. The
integrated V-band magnitudes of these clusters range from Mv~-9 to as faint as
Mv~-4, extending the depth of the existing M33 cluster catalogs by ~1 mag.
Comparisons of theoretical isochrones to the color-magnitude diagrams using the
Padova models yield ages for 148 of these star clusters. The ages range from
Log (t)~7.0 to Log (t)~9.0. Our color-magnitude diagrams are not sensitive to
clusters older than ~1 Gyr. We find that the variation of the clusters'
integrated colors and absolute magnitudes with age is consistent with the
predictions of simple stellar population models. These same models suggest that
the masses of the clusters in our sample range from 5x10^3 to 5x10^4 *Msun.


Submodularity in Batch Active Learning and Survey Problems on Gaussian
  Random Fields

  Many real-world datasets can be represented in the form of a graph whose edge
weights designate similarities between instances. A discrete Gaussian random
field (GRF) model is a finite-dimensional Gaussian process (GP) whose prior
covariance is the inverse of a graph Laplacian. Minimizing the trace of the
predictive covariance Sigma (V-optimality) on GRFs has proven successful in
batch active learning classification problems with budget constraints. However,
its worst-case bound has been missing. We show that the V-optimality on GRFs as
a function of the batch query set is submodular and hence its greedy selection
algorithm guarantees an (1-1/e) approximation ratio. Moreover, GRF models have
the absence-of-suppressor (AofS) condition. For active survey problems, we
propose a similar survey criterion which minimizes 1'(Sigma)1. In practice,
V-optimality criterion performs better than GPs with mutual information gain
criteria and allows nonuniform costs for different nodes.


Sampling for Inference in Probabilistic Models with Fast Bayesian
  Quadrature

  We propose a novel sampling framework for inference in probabilistic models:
an active learning approach that converges more quickly (in wall-clock time)
than Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) benchmarks. The central challenge in
probabilistic inference is numerical integration, to average over ensembles of
models or unknown (hyper-)parameters (for example to compute the marginal
likelihood or a partition function). MCMC has provided approaches to numerical
integration that deliver state-of-the-art inference, but can suffer from sample
inefficiency and poor convergence diagnostics. Bayesian quadrature techniques
offer a model-based solution to such problems, but their uptake has been
hindered by prohibitive computation costs. We introduce a warped model for
probabilistic integrands (likelihoods) that are known to be non-negative,
permitting a cheap active learning scheme to optimally select sample locations.
Our algorithm is demonstrated to offer faster convergence (in seconds) relative
to simple Monte Carlo and annealed importance sampling on both synthetic and
real-world examples.


Differentially Private Bayesian Optimization

  Bayesian optimization is a powerful tool for fine-tuning the hyper-parameters
of a wide variety of machine learning models. The success of machine learning
has led practitioners in diverse real-world settings to learn classifiers for
practical problems. As machine learning becomes commonplace, Bayesian
optimization becomes an attractive method for practitioners to automate the
process of classifier hyper-parameter tuning. A key observation is that the
data used for tuning models in these settings is often sensitive. Certain data
such as genetic predisposition, personal email statistics, and car accident
history, if not properly private, may be at risk of being inferred from
Bayesian optimization outputs. To address this, we introduce methods for
releasing the best hyper-parameters and classifier accuracy privately.
Leveraging the strong theoretical guarantees of differential privacy and known
Bayesian optimization convergence bounds, we prove that under a GP assumption
these private quantities are also near-optimal. Finally, even if this
assumption is not satisfied, we can use different smoothness guarantees to
protect privacy.


Anomaly Detection and Removal Using Non-Stationary Gaussian Processes

  This paper proposes a novel Gaussian process approach to fault removal in
time-series data. Fault removal does not delete the faulty signal data but,
instead, massages the fault from the data. We assume that only one fault occurs
at any one time and model the signal by two separate non-parametric Gaussian
process models for both the physical phenomenon and the fault. In order to
facilitate fault removal we introduce the Markov Region Link kernel for
handling non-stationary Gaussian processes. This kernel is piece-wise
stationary but guarantees that functions generated by it and their derivatives
(when required) are everywhere continuous. We apply this kernel to the removal
of drift and bias errors in faulty sensor data and also to the recovery of EOG
artifact corrupted EEG signals.


Exact Sampling from Determinantal Point Processes

  Determinantal point processes (DPPs) are an important concept in random
matrix theory and combinatorics. They have also recently attracted interest in
the study of numerical methods for machine learning, as they offer an elegant
"missing link" between independent Monte Carlo sampling and deterministic
evaluation on regular grids, applicable to a general set of spaces. This is
helpful whenever an algorithm explores to reduce uncertainty, such as in active
learning, Bayesian optimization, reinforcement learning, and marginalization in
graphical models. To draw samples from a DPP in practice, existing literature
focuses on approximate schemes of low cost, or comparably inefficient exact
algorithms like rejection sampling. We point out that, for many settings of
relevance to machine learning, it is also possible to draw exact samples from
DPPs on continuous domains. We start from an intuitive example on the real
line, which is then generalized to multivariate real vector spaces. We also
compare to previously studied approximations, showing that exact sampling,
despite higher cost, can be preferable where precision is needed.


Improving Quadrature for Constrained Integrands

  We present an improved Bayesian framework for performing inference of affine
transformations of constrained functions. We focus on quadrature with
nonnegative functions, a common task in Bayesian inference. We consider
constraints on the range of the function of interest, such as nonnegativity or
boundedness. Although our framework is general, we derive explicit
approximation schemes for these constraints, and argue for the use of a log
transformation for functions with high dynamic range such as likelihood
surfaces. We propose a novel method for optimizing hyperparameters in this
framework: we optimize the marginal likelihood in the original space, as
opposed to in the transformed space. The result is a model that better explains
the actual data. Experiments on synthetic and real-world data demonstrate our
framework achieves superior estimates using less wall-clock time than existing
Bayesian quadrature procedures.


Learning and Anticipating Future Actions During Exploratory Data
  Analysis

  The goal of visual analytics is to create a symbiosis between human and
computer by leveraging their unique strengths. While this model has
demonstrated immense success, we are yet to realize the full potential of such
a human-computer partnership. In a perfect collaborative mixed-initiative
system, the computer must possess skills for learning and anticipating the
users' needs. Addressing this gap, we propose a framework for inferring focus
areas from passive observations of the user's actions, thereby allowing
accurate predictions of future events. We evaluate this technique with a crime
map and demonstrate that users' clicks appear in our prediction set 95% - 97%
of the time. Further analysis shows that we can achieve high prediction
accuracy typically after three clicks. Altogether, we show that passive
observations of interaction data can reveal valuable information that will
allow the system to learn and anticipate future events, laying the foundation
for next-generation tools.


Automated Model Selection with Bayesian Quadrature

  We present a novel technique for tailoring Bayesian quadrature (BQ) to model
selection. The state-of-the-art for comparing the evidence of multiple models
relies on Monte Carlo methods, which converge slowly and are unreliable for
computationally expensive models. Previous research has shown that BQ offers
sample efficiency superior to Monte Carlo in computing the evidence of an
individual model. However, applying BQ directly to model comparison may waste
computation producing an overly-accurate estimate for the evidence of a clearly
poor model. We propose an automated and efficient algorithm for computing the
most-relevant quantity for model selection: the posterior probability of a
model. Our technique maximizes the mutual information between this quantity and
observations of the models' likelihoods, yielding efficient acquisition of
samples across disparate model spaces when likelihood observations are limited.
Our method produces more-accurate model posterior estimates using fewer model
likelihood evaluations than standard Bayesian quadrature and Monte Carlo
estimators, as we demonstrate on synthetic and real-world examples.


The entropic basis of collective behaviour

  In this paper, we identify a radically new viewpoint on the collective
behaviour of groups of intelligent agents. We first develop a highly general
abstract model for the possible future lives that these agents may encounter as
a result of their decisions. In the context of these possible futures, we show
that the causal entropic principle, whereby agents follow behavioural rules
that maximise their entropy over all paths through the future, predicts many of
the observed features of social interactions between individuals in both human
and animal groups. Our results indicate that agents are often able to maximise
their future path entropy by remaining cohesive as a group, and that this
cohesion leads to collectively intelligent outcomes that depend strongly on the
distribution of the number of future paths that are possible. We derive social
interaction rules that are consistent with maximum-entropy group behaviour for
both discrete and continuous decision spaces. Our analysis further predicts
that social interactions are likely to be fundamentally based on Weber's law of
response to proportional stimuli, supporting many studies that find a
neurological basis for this stimulus-response mechanism, and providing a novel
basis for the common assumption of linearly additive 'social forces' in
simulation studies of collective behaviour.


Active Search for Sparse Signals with Region Sensing

  Autonomous systems can be used to search for sparse signals in a large space;
e.g., aerial robots can be deployed to localize threats, detect gas leaks, or
respond to distress calls. Intuitively, search algorithms may increase
efficiency by collecting aggregate measurements summarizing large contiguous
regions. However, most existing search methods either ignore the possibility of
such region observations (e.g., Bayesian optimization and multi-armed bandits)
or make strong assumptions about the sensing mechanism that allow each
measurement to arbitrarily encode all signals in the entire environment (e.g.,
compressive sensing). We propose an algorithm that actively collects data to
search for sparse signals using only noisy measurements of the average values
on rectangular regions (including single points), based on the greedy
maximization of information gain. We analyze our algorithm in 1d and show that
it requires $\tilde{O}(\frac{n}{\mu^2}+k^2)$ measurements to recover all of $k$
signal locations with small Bayes error, where $\mu$ and $n$ are the signal
strength and the size of the search space, respectively. We also show that
active designs can be fundamentally more efficient than passive designs with
region sensing, contrasting with the results of Arias-Castro, Candes, and
Davenport (2013). We demonstrate the empirical performance of our algorithm on
a search problem using satellite image data and in high dimensions.


Efficient nonmyopic active search with applications in drug and
  materials discovery

  Active search is a learning paradigm for actively identifying as many members
of a given class as possible. A critical target scenario is high-throughput
screening for scientific discovery, such as drug or materials discovery. In
this paper, we approach this problem in Bayesian decision framework. We first
derive the Bayesian optimal policy under a natural utility, and establish a
theoretical hardness of active search, proving that the optimal policy can not
be approximated for any constant ratio. We also study the batch setting for the
first time, where a batch of $b>1$ points can be queried at each iteration. We
give an asymptotic lower bound, linear in batch size, on the adaptivity gap:
how much we could lose if we query $b$ points at a time for $t$ iterations,
instead of one point at a time for $bt$ iterations. We then introduce a novel
approach to nonmyopic approximations of the optimal policy that admits
efficient computation. Our proposed policy can automatically trade off
exploration and exploitation, without relying on any tuning parameters. We also
generalize our policy to batch setting, and propose two approaches to tackle
the combinatorial search challenge. We evaluate our proposed policies on a
large database of drug discovery and materials science. Results demonstrate the
superior performance of our proposed policy in both sequential and batch
setting; the nonmyopic behavior is also illustrated in various aspects.


Newly Identified Star Clusters in M33. III. Structural Parameters

  We present the morphological properties of 161 star clusters in M33 using the
Advanced Camera For Surveys Wide Field Channel onboard the Hubble Space
Telescope using observations with the F606W and F814W filters. We obtain, for
the first time, ellipticities, position angles, and surface brightness profiles
for a significant number of clusters. On average, M33 clusters are more
flattened than those of the Milky Way and M31, and more similar to clusters in
the Small Magellanic Cloud. The ellipticities do not show any correlation with
age or mass, suggesting that rotation is not the main cause of elongation in
the M33 clusters. The position angles of the clusters show a bimodality with a
strong peak perpendicular to the position angle of the galaxy major axis. These
results support the notion that tidal forces are the reason for the cluster
flattening. We fit King and EFF models to the surface brightness profiles and
derive structural parameters including core radii, concentration, half-light
radii and central surface brightness for both filters. The surface brightness
profiles of a significant number of clusters show irregularities such as bumps
and dips. Young clusters (Log age < 8) are notably better fitted by models with
no radial truncation (EFF models), while older clusters show no significant
differences between King or EFF fits. M33 star clusters seem to have smaller
sizes, smaller concentrations, and smaller central surface brightness as
compared to clusters in the MW, M31, LMC and SMC. Analysis of the structural
parameters presents a age-radius relation also detected in other star cluster
systems. The overall analysis shows differences in the structural evolution
between the M33 cluster system and cluster systems in nearby galaxies. These
differences could have been caused by the strong differences in these various
environments.


