Settling Some Open Problems on 2-Player Symmetric Nash Equilibria

  Over the years, researchers have studied the complexity of several decision
versions of Nash equilibrium in (symmetric) two-player games (bimatrix games).
To the best of our knowledge, the last remaining open problem of this sort is
the following; it was stated by Papadimitriou in 2007: find a non-symmetric
Nash equilibrium (NE) in a symmetric game. We show that this problem is
NP-complete and the problem of counting the number of non-symmetric NE in a
symmetric game is #P-complete.
  In 2005, Kannan and Theobald defined the "rank of a bimatrix game"
represented by matrices (A, B) to be rank(A+B) and asked whether a NE can be
computed in rank 1 games in polynomial time. Observe that the rank 0 case is
precisely the zero sum case, for which a polynomial time algorithm follows from
von Neumann's reduction of such games to linear programming. In 2011, Adsul et.
al. obtained an algorithm for rank 1 games; however, it does not solve the case
of symmetric rank 1 games. We resolve this problem.


An Incentive Compatible, Efficient Market for Air Traffic Flow
  Management

  We present a market-based approach to the Air Traffic Flow Management (ATFM)
problem. The goods in our market are delays and buyers are airline companies;
the latter pay money to the FAA to buy away the desired amount of delay on a
per flight basis. We give a notion of equilibrium for this market and an LP
whose solution gives an equilibrium allocation of flights to landing slots as
well as equilibrium prices for the landing slots. Via a reduction to matching,
we show that this equilibrium can be computed combinatorially in strongly
polynomial time. Moreover, there is a special set of equilibrium prices, which
can be computed easily, that is identical to the VCG solution, and therefore
the market is incentive compatible in dominant strategy.


Learning Economic Parameters from Revealed Preferences

  A recent line of work, starting with Beigman and Vohra (2006) and
Zadimoghaddam and Roth (2012), has addressed the problem of {\em learning} a
utility function from revealed preference data. The goal here is to make use of
past data describing the purchases of a utility maximizing agent when faced
with certain prices and budget constraints in order to produce a hypothesis
function that can accurately forecast the {\em future} behavior of the agent.
  In this work we advance this line of work by providing sample complexity
guarantees and efficient algorithms for a number of important classes. By
drawing a connection to recent advances in multi-class learning, we provide a
computationally efficient algorithm with tight sample complexity guarantees
($\Theta(d/\epsilon)$ for the case of $d$ goods) for learning linear utility
functions under a linear price model. This solves an open question in
Zadimoghaddam and Roth (2012). Our technique yields numerous generalizations
including the ability to learn other well-studied classes of utility functions,
to deal with a misspecified model, and with non-linear prices.


Constant Rank Bimatrix Games are PPAD-hard

  The rank of a bimatrix game (A,B) is defined as rank(A+B). Computing a Nash
equilibrium (NE) of a rank-$0$, i.e., zero-sum game is equivalent to linear
programming (von Neumann'28, Dantzig'51). In 2005, Kannan and Theobald gave an
FPTAS for constant rank games, and asked if there exists a polynomial time
algorithm to compute an exact NE. Adsul et al. (2011) answered this question
affirmatively for rank-$1$ games, leaving rank-2 and beyond unresolved.
  In this paper we show that NE computation in games with rank $\ge 3$, is
PPAD-hard, settling a decade long open problem. Interestingly, this is the
first instance that a problem with an FPTAS turns out to be PPAD-hard. Our
reduction bypasses graphical games and game gadgets, and provides a simpler
proof of PPAD-hardness for NE computation in bimatrix games. In addition, we
get:
  * An equivalence between 2D-Linear-FIXP and PPAD, improving a result by
Etessami and Yannakakis (2007) on equivalence between Linear-FIXP and PPAD.
  * NE computation in a bimatrix game with convex set of Nash equilibria is as
hard as solving a simple stochastic game.
  * Computing a symmetric NE of a symmetric bimatrix game with rank $\ge 6$ is
PPAD-hard.
  * Computing a (1/poly(n))-approximate fixed-point of a (Linear-FIXP)
piecewise-linear function is PPAD-hard.
  The status of rank-$2$ games remains unresolved.


Leontief Exchange Markets Can Solve Multivariate Polynomial Equations,
  Yielding FIXP and ETR Hardness

  We show FIXP-hardness of computing equilibria in Arrow-Debreu exchange
markets under Leontief utility functions, and Arrow-Debreu markets under linear
utility functions and Leontief production sets, thereby settling these open
questions (Vazirani and Yannakakis, 2009). As corollaries, we obtain
FIXP-hardness for piecewise-linear concave (PLC) utilities and for Arrow-Debreu
markets under linear utility functions and polyhedral production sets. In all
cases, as required under FIXP, the set of instances mapped onto will admit
equilibria, i.e., will be "yes" instances. If all instances are under
consideration, then in all cases we prove that the problem of deciding if a
given instance admits an equilibrium is ETR-complete, where ETR is the class
Existential Theory of Reals.
  As a consequence of the results stated above, and the fact that membership in
FIXP has been established for PLC utilities, the entire computational
difficulty of Arrow-Debreu markets under PLC utility functions lies in the
Leontief utility subcase. This is perhaps the most unexpected aspect of our
result, since Leontief utilities are meant for the case that goods are perfect
complements, whereas PLC utilities are very general, capturing not only the
cases when goods are complements and substitutes, but also arbitrary
combinations of these and much more.
  The main technical part of our result is the following reduction: Given a set
'S' of simultaneous multivariate polynomial equations in which the variables
are constrained to be in a closed bounded region in the positive orthant, we
construct a Leontief exchange market 'M' which has one good corresponding to
each variable in 'S'. We prove that the equilibria of 'M', when projected onto
prices of these latter goods, are in one-to-one correspondence with the set of
solutions of the polynomials. This reduction is related to a classic result of
Sonnenschein (1972-73).


Nash equilibria in Fisher market

  Much work has been done on the computation of market equilibria. However due
to strategic play by buyers, it is not clear whether these are actually
observed in the market. Motivated by the observation that a buyer may derive a
better payoff by feigning a different utility function and thereby manipulating
the Fisher market equilibrium, we formulate the {\em Fisher market game} in
which buyers strategize by posing different utility functions. We show that
existence of a {\em conflict-free allocation} is a necessary condition for the
Nash equilibria (NE) and also sufficient for the symmetric NE in this game.
There are many NE with very different payoffs, and the Fisher equilibrium
payoff is captured at a symmetric NE. We provide a complete polyhedral
characterization of all the NE for the two-buyer market game. Surprisingly, all
the NE of this game turn out to be symmetric and the corresponding payoffs
constitute a piecewise linear concave curve. We also study the correlated
equilibria of this game and show that third-party mediation does not help to
achieve a better payoff than NE payoffs.


Rank-1 Bi-matrix Games: A Homeomorphism and a Polynomial Time Algorithm

  Given a rank-1 bimatrix game (A,B), i.e., where rank(A+B)=1, we construct a
suitable linear subspace of the rank-1 game space and show that this subspace
is homeomorphic to its Nash equilibrium correspondence. Using this
homeomorphism, we give the first polynomial time algorithm for computing an
exact Nash equilibrium of a rank-1 bimatrix game. This settles an open question
posed in Kannan and Theobald (SODA 2007) and Theobald (2007). In addition, we
give a novel algorithm to enumerate all the Nash equilibria of a rank-1 game
and show that a similar technique may also be applied for finding a Nash
equilibrium of any bimatrix game. This technique also proves the existence,
oddness and the index theorem of Nash equilibria in a bimatrix game. Further,
we extend the rank-1 homeomorphism result to a fixed rank game space, and give
a fixed point formulation on $[0,1]^k$ for solving a rank-k game. The
homeomorphism and the fixed point formulation are piece-wise linear and
considerably simpler than the classical constructions.


Mutation, Sexual Reproduction and Survival in Dynamic Environments

  A new approach to understanding evolution [Val09], namely viewing it through
the lens of computation, has already started yielding new insights, e.g.,
natural selection under sexual reproduction can be interpreted as the
Multiplicative Weight Update (MWU) Algorithm in coordination games played among
genes [CLPV14]. Using this machinery, we study the role of mutation in changing
environments in the presence of sexual reproduction. Following [WVA05], we
model changing environments via a Markov chain, with the states representing
environments, each with its own fitness matrix. In this setting, we show that
in the absence of mutation, the population goes extinct, but in the presence of
mutation, the population survives with positive probability. On the way to
proving the above theorem, we need to establish some facts about dynamics in
games. We provide the first, to our knowledge, polynomial convergence bound for
noisy MWU in a coordination game. Finally, we also show that in static
environments, sexual evolution with mutation converges, for any level of
mutation.


A New Class of Combinatorial Markets with Covering Constraints:
  Algorithms and Applications

  We introduce a new class of combinatorial markets in which agents have
covering constraints over resources required and are interested in delay
minimization. Our market model is applicable to several settings including
scheduling, cloud computing, and communicating over a network. This model is
quite different from the traditional models, to the extent that neither do the
classical equilibrium existence results seem to apply to it nor do any of the
efficient algorithmic techniques developed to compute equilibria seem to apply
directly. We give a proof of existence of equilibrium and a polynomial time
algorithm for finding one, drawing heavily on techniques from LP duality and
submodular minimization. We observe that in our market model, the set of
equilibrium prices could be a connected, non-convex set. To the best of our
knowledge, this is the first natural example of the phenomenon where the set of
solutions could have such complicated structure, yet there is a combinatorial
polynomial time algorithm to find one. Finally, we show that our model inherits
many of the fairness properties of traditional equilibrium models.


Universal Growth in Production Economies

  We consider a simple variant of the von Neumann model of an expanding
economy, in which multiple producers make goods according to their production
function. The players trade their goods at the market and then use the bundles
acquired for the production in the next round. We study a simple decentralized
dynamic---known as proportional response---in which players update their bids
proportionally to how useful the investments were in the past round.
  We show this dynamic leads to growth of the economy in the long term
(whenever growth is possible) but also creates unbounded inequality, i.e. very
rich and very poor players emerge. We analyze several other phenomena, such as
how the relation of a player with others influences its development and the
Gini index of the system.
  One of the key technical findings is that the players learn a global feature
of the network (the optimal cycle) in a decentralized way, while interacting
locally with their direct neighbors. We obtain this by studying the volume in
the resulting dynamical system and showing that the volume of each cycle
expands or contracts by a constant factor in each round.


Maximizing Profit with Convex Costs in the Random-order Model

  Suppose a set of requests arrives online: each request gives some value $v_i$
if accepted, but requires using some amount of each of $d$ resources. Our cost
is a convex function of the vector of total utilization of these $d$ resources.
Which requests should be accept to maximize our profit, i.e., the sum of values
of the accepted demands, minus the convex cost?
  We consider this problem in the random-order a.k.a. secretary model, and show
an $O(d)$-competitive algorithm for the case where the convex cost function is
also supermodular. If the set of accepted demands must also be independent in a
given matroid, we give an $O(d^3 \alpha)$-competitive algorithm for the
supermodular case, and an improved $O(d^2\alpha)$ if the convex cost function
is also separable. Here $\alpha$ is the competitive ratio of the best algorithm
for the submodular secretary problem. These extend and improve previous results
known for this problem. Our techniques are simple but use powerful ideas from
convex duality, which give clean interpretations of existing work, and allow us
to give the extensions and improvements.


Performance Metric Elicitation from Pairwise Classifier Comparisons

  Given a binary prediction problem, which performance metric should the
classifier optimize? We address this question by formalizing the problem of
Metric Elicitation. The goal of metric elicitation is to discover the
performance metric of a practitioner, which reflects her innate rewards (costs)
for correct (incorrect) classification. In particular, we focus on eliciting
binary classification performance metrics from pairwise feedback, where a
practitioner is queried to provide relative preference between two classifiers.
By exploiting key geometric properties of the space of confusion matrices, we
obtain provably query efficient algorithms for eliciting linear and
linear-fractional performance metrics. We further show that our method is
robust to feedback and finite sample noise.


Fast Algorithms for Rank-1 Bimatrix Games

  The rank of a bimatrix game is the matrix rank of the sum of the two payoff
matrices. For a game of rank k, the set of its Nash equilibria is the
intersection of a generically one-dimensional set of equilibria of
parameterized games of rank k-1 with a hyperplane. We comprehensively analyze
games of rank one. They are economonically more interesting than zero-sum games
(which have rank zero), but are nearly as easy to solve. One equilibrium of a
rank-1 game can be found in polynomial time. All equilibria of a rank-1 game
can be found by path-following, which finds only one equilibrium of a bimatrix
game. The number of equilibria of a rank-1 game may be exponential. We also
present a new rank-preserving homeomorphism between bimatrix games and their
equilibrium correspondence.


Natural Selection as an Inhibitor of Genetic Diversity: Multiplicative
  Weights Updates Algorithm and a Conjecture of Haploid Genetics

  In a recent series of papers a surprisingly strong connection was discovered
between standard models of evolution in mathematical biology and Multiplicative
Weights Updates Algorithm, a ubiquitous model of online learning and
optimization. These papers establish that mathematical models of biological
evolution are tantamount to applying discrete Multiplicative Weights Updates
Algorithm, a close variant of MWUA, on coordination games. This connection
allows for introducing insights from the study of game theoretic dynamics into
the field of mathematical biology. Using these results as a stepping stone, we
show that mathematical models of haploid evolution imply the extinction of
genetic diversity in the long term limit, a widely believed conjecture in
genetics. In game theoretic terms we show that in the case of coordination
games, under minimal genericity assumptions, discrete MWUA converges to pure
Nash equilibria for all but a zero measure of initial conditions. This result
holds despite the fact that mixed Nash equilibria can be exponentially (or even
uncountably) many, completely dominating in number the set of pure Nash
equilibria. Thus, in haploid organisms the long term preservation of genetic
diversity needs to be safeguarded by other evolutionary mechanisms such as
mutations and speciation.


To Give or Not to Give: Fair Division for Single Minded Valuations

  Single minded agents have strict preferences, in which a bundle is acceptable
only if it meets a certain demand. Such preferences arise naturally in
scenarios such as allocating computational resources among users, where the
goal is to fairly serve as many requests as possible. In this paper we study
the fair division problem for such agents, which is harder to handle due to
discontinuity and complementarities of the preferences.
  Our solution concept---the competitive allocation from equal incomes
(CAEI)---is inspired from market equilibria and implements fair outcomes
through a pricing mechanism. We study the existence and computation of CAEI for
multiple divisible goods, cake cutting, and multiple discrete goods. For the
first two scenarios we show that existence of CAEI solutions is guaranteed,
while for the third we give a succinct characterization of instances that admit
this solution; then we give an efficient algorithm to find one in all three
cases. Maximizing social welfare turns out to be NP-hard in general, however we
obtain efficient algorithms for (i) divisible and discrete goods when the
number of different \emph{types} of players is a constant, (ii) cake cutting
with contiguous demands, for which we establish an interesting connection with
interval scheduling, and (iii) cake cutting with a constant number of players
with arbitrary demands.
  Our solution is useful more generally, when the players have a target set of
desired goods, and very small positive values for any bundle not containing
their target set.


Bilinear Games: Polynomial Time Algorithms for Rank Based Subclasses

  Motivated by the sequence form formulation of Koller et al. (GEB'96), this
paper defines {\em bilinear games}, and proposes efficient algorithms for its
rank based subclasses. Bilinear games are two-player non-cooperative
single-shot games with compact polytopal strategy sets and two payoff matrices
(A,B) such that when (x,y) is the played strategy profile, the payoffs of the
players are xAy and xBy respectively. We show that bilinear games are very
general and capture many interesting classes of games like bimatrix games, two
player Bayesian games, polymatrix games, two-player extensive form games with
perfect recall etc. as special cases, and hence are hard to solve in general.
  Existence of a (symmetric) Nash equilibrium for (symmetric) bilinear games
follow directly from the known results. For a given bilinear game, we define
its {\em Best Response Polytopes} (BRPs) and characterize the set of Nash
equilibria as {\em fully-labeled} pairs in the BRPs. We consider a rank based
hierarchy of bilinear games, where rank of a game (A,B) is defined as
rank(A+B). In this paper, we give polynomial time algorithms to compute Nash
equilibrium for special classes of bilinear games:
  (i) Rank-1 games (i.e., rank(A+B)=1). (ii) FPTAS for constant rank games
(i.e., rank(A+B) is constant). (iii) When rank(A) or rank(B) is constant. This
improves the results by Lipton et al. (EC'03) and Kannan et al. (ET'09), for
bimatrix games with low rank matrices.


The Complexity of Genetic Diversity

  A key question in biological systems is whether genetic diversity persists in
the long run under evolutionary competition or whether a single dominant
genotype emerges. Classic work by Kalmus in 1945 has established that even in
simple diploid species (species with two chromosomes) diversity can be
guaranteed as long as the heterozygote individuals enjoy a selective advantage.
Despite the classic nature of the problem, as we move towards increasingly
polymorphic traits (e.g. human blood types) predicting diversity and
understanding its implications is still not fully understood. Our key
contribution is to establish complexity theoretic hardness results implying
that even in the textbook case of single locus diploid models predicting
whether diversity survives or not given its fitness landscape is
algorithmically intractable. We complement our results by establishing that
under randomly chosen fitness landscapes diversity survives with significant
probability. Our results are structurally robust along several dimensions
(e.g., choice of parameter distribution, different definitions of
stability/persistence, restriction to typical subclasses of fitness
landscapes). Technically, our results exploit connections between game theory,
nonlinear dynamical systems, complexity theory and biology and establish
hardness results for predicting the evolution of a deterministic variant of the
well known multiplicative weights update algorithm in symmetric coordination
games which could be of independent interest.


CLS: New Problems and Completeness

  The complexity class CLS was introduced by Daskalakis and Papadimitriou with
the goal of capturing the complexity of some well-known problems in
PPAD$~\cap~$PLS that have resisted, in some cases for decades, attempts to put
them in polynomial time. No complete problem was known for CLS, and in previous
work, the problems ContractionMap, i.e., the problem of finding an approximate
fixpoint of a contraction map, and PLCP, i.e., the problem of solving a
P-matrix Linear Complementarity Problem, were identified as prime candidates.
  First, we present a new CLS-complete problem MetaMetricContractionMap, which
is closely related to the ContractionMap. Second, we introduce
EndOfPotentialLine, which captures aspects of PPAD and PLS directly via a
monotonic directed path, and show that EndOfPotentialLine is in CLS via a
two-way reduction to EndOfMeteredLine. The latter was defined to keep track of
how far a vertex is on the PPAD path via a restricted potential function.
Third, we reduce PLCP to EndOfPotentialLine, thus making EndOfPotentialLine and
EndOfMeteredLine at least as likely to be hard for CLS as PLCP. This last
result leverages the monotonic structure of Lemke paths for PLCP problems,
making EndOfPotentialLine a likely candidate to capture the exact complexity of
PLCP; we note that the structure of Lemke-Howson paths for finding a Nash
equilibrium in a two-player game very directly motivated the definition of the
complexity class PPAD, which eventually ended up capturing this problem's
complexity exactly.


Social welfare and profit maximization from revealed preferences

  Consider the seller's problem of finding optimal prices for her $n$
(divisible) goods when faced with a set of $m$ consumers, given that she can
only observe their purchased bundles at posted prices, i.e., revealed
preferences. We study both social welfare and profit maximization with revealed
preferences. Although social welfare maximization is a seemingly non-convex
optimization problem in prices, we show that (i) it can be reduced to a dual
convex optimization problem in prices, and (ii) the revealed preferences can be
interpreted as supergradients of the concave conjugate of valuation, with which
subgradients of the dual function can be computed. We thereby obtain a simple
subgradient-based algorithm for strongly concave valuations and convex cost,
with query complexity $O(m^2/\epsilon^2)$, where $\epsilon$ is the additive
difference between the social welfare induced by our algorithm and the optimum
social welfare. We also study social welfare maximization under the online
setting, specifically the random permutation model, where consumers arrive
one-by-one in a random order. For the case where consumer valuations can be
arbitrary continuous functions, we propose a price posting mechanism that
achieves an expected social welfare up to an additive factor of $O(\sqrt{mn})$
from the maximum social welfare. Finally, for profit maximization (which may be
non-convex in simple cases), we give nearly matching upper and lower bounds on
the query complexity for separable valuations and cost (i.e., each good can be
treated independently).


Sum-of-Squares meets Nash: Optimal Lower Bounds for Finding any
  Equilibrium

  Several works have shown unconditional hardness (via integrality gaps) of
computing equilibria using strong hierarchies of convex relaxations. Such
results however only apply to the problem of computing equilibria that optimize
a certain objective function and not to the (arguably more fundamental) task of
finding \emph{any} equilibrium.
  We present an algorithmic model based on the sum-of-squares (SoS) hierarchy
that allows escaping this inherent limitation of integrality gaps. In this
model, algorithms access the input game only through a relaxed solution to the
natural SoS relaxation for computing equilibria. They can then adaptively
construct a list of candidate solutions and invoke a verification oracle to
check if any candidate on the list is a solution. This model captures most
well-studied approximation algorithms such as those for Max-Cut, Sparsest Cut,
and Unique-Games.
  The state-of-the-art algorithms for computing exact and approximate
equilibria in two-player, n-strategy games are captured in this model and
require that at least one of i) size (~ running time) of the SoS relaxation or
ii) the size of the list of candidates, be at least $2^{\Omega(n)}$ and
$n^{\Omega(\log{(n)})}$ respectively. Our main result shows a lower bound that
matches these upper bound up to constant factors in the exponent.
  This can be interpreted as an unconditional confirmation, in our restricted
algorithmic framework, of Rubinstein's recent conditional hardness \cite{Rub}
for computing approximate equilibria.
  Our proof strategy involves constructing a family of games that all share a
common sum-of-squares solution but every (approximate) equilibrium of one game
is far from every (approximate) equilibrium of any other game in the family.


Resource Allocation Game on Social Networks: Best Response Dynamics and
  Convergence

  The decisions that human beings make to allocate time has significant bearing
on economic output and to the sustenance of social networks. The time
allocation problem motivates our formal analysis of the resource allocation
game, where agents on a social network, who have asymmetric, private
interaction preferences, make decisions on how to allocate time, a bounded
endowment, over their neighbors. Unlike the well-known opinion formation game
on a social network, our game appears not to be a potential game, and the
Best-Response dynamics is non-differentiable making the analysis of
Best-Response dynamics non-trivial.
  In our game, we consider two types of player behavior, namely optimistic or
pessimistic, based on how they use their time endowment over their neighbors.
To analyze Best-Response dynamics, we circumvent the problem of the game not
being a potential game, through the lens of a novel two-level potential
function approach. We show that the Best-Response dynamics converges point-wise
to a Nash Equilibrium when players are all: optimistic; pessimistic; a mix of
both types. Finally, we show that the Nash Equilibrium set is non-convex but
connected, and Price of Anarchy is unbounded while Price of Stability is one.
Extensive simulations over a stylized grid reveals that the distribution of
quality of the convergence points is unimodal-we conjecture that presence of
unimodality is tied to the connectedness of Nash Equilibrium.


Nash Social Welfare Approximation for Strategic Agents

  The fair division of resources is an important age-old problem that has led
to a rich body of literature. At the center of this literature lies the
question of whether there exist fair mechanisms despite strategic behavior of
the agents. A fundamental objective function used for measuring fair outcomes
is the Nash social welfare, defined as the geometric mean of the agent
utilities. This objective function is maximized by widely known solution
concepts such as Nash bargaining and the competitive equilibrium with equal
incomes. In this work we focus on the question of (approximately) implementing
the Nash social welfare. The starting point of our analysis is the Fisher
market, a fundamental model of an economy, whose benchmark is precisely the
(weighted) Nash social welfare. We begin by studying two extreme classes of
valuations functions, namely perfect substitutes and perfect complements, and
find that for perfect substitutes, the Fisher market mechanism has a constant
approximation: at most 2 and at least e1e. However, for perfect complements,
the Fisher market does not work well, its bound degrading linearly with the
number of players.
  Strikingly, the Trading Post mechanism---an indirect market mechanism also
known as the Shapley-Shubik game---has significantly better performance than
the Fisher market on its own benchmark. Not only does Trading Post achieve an
approximation of 2 for perfect substitutes, but this bound holds for all
concave utilities and becomes arbitrarily close to optimal for Leontief
utilities (perfect complements), where it reaches $(1+\epsilon)$ for every
$\epsilon > 0$. Moreover, all the Nash equilibria of the Trading Post mechanism
are pure for all concave utilities and satisfy an important notion of fairness
known as proportionality.


End of Potential Line

  We introduce the problem EndOfPotentialLine and the corresponding complexity
class EOPL of all problems that can be reduced to it in polynomial time. This
class captures problems that admit a single combinatorial proof of their joint
membership in the complexity classes PPAD of fixpoint problems and PLS of local
search problems. EOPL is a combinatorially-defined alternative to the class CLS
(for Continuous Local Search), which was introduced in with the goal of
capturing the complexity of some well-known problems in PPAD $\cap$ PLS that
have resisted, in some cases for decades, attempts to put them in polynomial
time. Two of these are Contraction, the problem of finding a fixpoint of a
contraction map, and P-LCP, the problem of solving a P-matrix Linear
Complementarity Problem.
  We show that EndOfPotentialLine is in CLS via a two-way reduction to
EndOfMeteredLine. The latter was defined in to show query and cryptographic
lower bounds for CLS. Our two main results are to show that both PL-Contraction
(Piecewise-Linear Contraction) and P-LCP are in EOPL. Our reductions imply that
the promise versions of PL-Contraction and P-LCP are in the promise class
UniqueEOPL, which corresponds to the case of a single potential line. This also
shows that simple-stochastic, discounted, mean-payoff, and parity games are in
EOPL.
  Using the insights from our reduction for PL-Contraction, we obtain the first
polynomial-time algorithms for finding fixed points of contraction maps in
fixed dimension for any $\ell_p$ norm, where previously such algorithms were
only known for the $\ell_2$ and $\ell_\infty$ norms. Our reduction from P-LCP
to EndOfPotentialLine allows a technique of Aldous to be applied, which in turn
gives the fastest-known randomized algorithm for the P-LCP.


Smoothed Efficient Algorithms and Reductions for Network Coordination
  Games

  Worst-case hardness results for most equilibrium computation problems have
raised the need for beyond-worst-case analysis. To this end, we study the
smoothed complexity of finding pure Nash equilibria in Network Coordination
Games, a PLS-complete problem in the worst case. This is a potential game where
the sequential-better-response algorithm is known to converge to a pure NE,
albeit in exponential time. First, we prove polynomial (resp. quasi-polynomial)
smoothed complexity when the underlying game graph is a complete (resp.
arbitrary) graph, and every player has constantly many strategies. We note that
the complete graph case is reminiscent of perturbing all parameters, a common
assumption in most known smoothed analysis results.
  Second, we define a notion of smoothness-preserving reduction among search
problems, and obtain reductions from $2$-strategy network coordination games to
local-max-cut, and from $k$-strategy games (with arbitrary $k$) to
local-max-cut up to two flips. The former together with the recent result of
[BCC18] gives an alternate $O(n^8)$-time smoothed algorithm for the
$2$-strategy case. This notion of reduction allows for the extension of
smoothed efficient algorithms from one problem to another.
  For the first set of results, we develop techniques to bound the probability
that an (adversarial) better-response sequence makes slow improvements on the
potential. Our approach combines and generalizes the local-max-cut approaches
of [ER14,ABPW17] to handle the multi-strategy case: it requires a careful
definition of the matrix which captures the increase in potential, a tighter
union bound on adversarial sequences, and balancing it with good enough rank
bounds. We believe that the approach and notions developed herein could be of
interest in addressing the smoothed complexity of other potential and/or
congestion games.


Unique End of Potential Line

  This paper studies the complexity of problems in PPAD $\cap$ PLS that have
unique solutions. Three well-known examples of such problems are the problem of
finding a fixpoint of a contraction map, finding the unique sink of a Unique
Sink Orientation (USO), and solving the P-matrix Linear Complementarity Problem
(P-LCP). Each of these are promise-problems, and when the promise holds, they
always possess unique solutions.
  We define the complexity class UEOPL to capture problems of this type. We
first define a class that we call EOPL, which consists of all problems that can
be reduced to End-of-Potential-Line. This problem merges the canonical
PPAD-complete problem End-of-Line, with the canonical PLS-complete problem
Sink-of-Dag, and so EOPL captures problems that can be solved by a
line-following algorithm that also simultaneously decreases a potential
function.
  Promise-UEOPL is a promise-subclass of EOPL in which the line in the
End-of-Potential-Line instance is guaranteed to be unique via a promise. We
turn this into a non-promise class UEOPL, by adding an extra solution type to
EOPL that captures any pair of points that are provably on two different lines.
  We show that UEOPL $\subseteq$ EOPL $\subseteq$ CLS, and that all of our
motivating problems are contained in UEOPL: specifically USO, P-LCP, and
finding a fixpoint of a Piecewise-Linear Contraction under an $\ell_p$-norm all
lie in UEOPL. Our results also imply that parity games, mean-payoff games,
discounted games, and simple-stochastic games lie in UEOPL.
  All of our containment results are proved via a reduction to a problem that
we call One-Permutation Discrete Contraction (OPDC). This problem is motivated
by a discretized version of contraction, but it is also closely related to the
USO problem. We show that OPDC lies in UEOPL, and we are also able to show that
OPDC is UEOPL-complete.


