Investigating Causal Relationships in Stock Returns with Temporal Logic
  Based Methods

  We describe a new framework for causal inference and its application to
return time series. In this system, causal relationships are represented as
logical formulas, allowing us to test arbitrarily complex hypotheses in a
computationally efficient way. We simulate return time series using a common
factor model, and show that on this data the method described significantly
outperforms Granger causality (a primary approach to this type of problem).
Finally we apply the method to real return data, showing that the method can
discover novel relationships between stocks. The approach described is a
general one that will allow combination of price and volume data with
qualitative information at varying time scales (from interest rate
announcements, to earnings reports to news stories) shedding light on some of
the previously invisible common causes of seemingly correlated price movements.


The Temporal Logic of Causal Structures

  Computational analysis of time-course data with an underlying causal
structure is needed in a variety of domains, including neural spike trains,
stock price movements, and gene expression levels. However, it can be
challenging to determine from just the numerical time course data alone what is
coordinating the visible processes, to separate the underlying prima facie
causes into genuine and spurious causes and to do so with a feasible
computational complexity. For this purpose, we have been developing a novel
algorithm based on a framework that combines notions of causality in philosophy
with algorithmic approaches built on model checking and statistical techniques
for multiple hypotheses testing. The causal relationships are described in
terms of temporal logic formulae, reframing the inference problem in terms of
model checking. The logic used, PCTL, allows description of both the time
between cause and effect and the probability of this relationship being
observed. We show that equipped with these causal formulae with their
associated probabilities we may compute the average impact a cause makes to its
effect and then discover statistically significant causes through the concepts
of multiple hypothesis testing (treating each causal relationship as a
hypothesis), and false discovery control. By exploring a well-chosen family of
potentially all significant hypotheses with reasonably minimal description
length, it is possible to tame the algorithm's computational complexity while
exploring the nearly complete search-space of all prima facie causes. We have
tested these ideas in a number of domains and illustrate them here with two
examples.


Proceedings 3rd Workshop on formal reasoning about Causation,
  Responsibility, and Explanations in Science and Technology

  The CREST 2018 workshop is the third in a series of workshops addressing
formal approaches to reasoning about causation in systems engineering. The
topic of formally identifying the cause(s) of specific events - usually some
form of failures -, and explaining why they occurred, are increasingly in the
focus of several, disjoint communities. The main objective of CREST is to bring
together researchers and practitioners from industry and academia in order to
enable discussions how explicit and implicit reasoning about causation is
performed. A further objective is to link to the foundations of causal
reasoning in the philosophy of sciences and to causal reasoning performed in
other areas of computer science, engineering, and beyond.


