A Hybrid Model for Disease Spread and an Application to the SARS
  Pandemic

  Pandemics can cause immense disruption and damage to communities and
societies. Thus far, modeling of pandemics has focused on either large-scale
difference equation models like the SIR and the SEIR models, or detailed
micro-level simulations, which are harder to apply at a global scale. This
paper introduces a hybrid model for pandemics considering both global and local
spread of infections. We hypothesize that the spread of an infectious disease
between regions is significantly influenced by global traffic patterns and the
spread within a region is influenced by local conditions. Thus we model the
spread of pandemics considering the connections between regions for the global
spread of infection and population density based on the SEIR model for the
local spread of infection. We validate our hybrid model by carrying out a
simulation study for the spread of SARS pandemic of 2002-2003 using available
data on population, population density, and traffic networks between different
regions. While it is well-known that international relationships and global
traffic patterns significantly influence the spread of pandemics, our results
show that integrating these factors into relatively simple models can greatly
improve the results of modeling disease spread.


Comparing Prediction Market Structures, With an Application to Market
  Making

  Ensuring sufficient liquidity is one of the key challenges for designers of
prediction markets. Various market making algorithms have been proposed in the
literature and deployed in practice, but there has been little effort to
evaluate their benefits and disadvantages in a systematic manner. We introduce
a novel experimental design for comparing market structures in live trading
that ensures fair comparison between two different microstructures with the
same trading population. Participants trade on outcomes related to a
two-dimensional random walk that they observe on their computer screens. They
can simultaneously trade in two markets, corresponding to the independent
horizontal and vertical random walks. We use this experimental design to
compare the popular inventory-based logarithmic market scoring rule (LMSR)
market maker and a new information based Bayesian market maker (BMM). Our
experiments reveal that BMM can offer significant benefits in terms of price
stability and expected loss when controlling for liquidity; the caveat is that,
unlike LMSR, BMM does not guarantee bounded loss. Our investigation also
elucidates some general properties of market makers in prediction markets. In
particular, there is an inherent tradeoff between adaptability to market shocks
and convergence during market equilibrium.


How to show a probabilistic model is better

  We present a simple theoretical framework, and corresponding practical
procedures, for comparing probabilistic models on real data in a traditional
machine learning setting. This framework is based on the theory of proper
scoring rules, but requires only basic algebra and probability theory to
understand and verify. The theoretical concepts presented are well-studied,
primarily in the statistics literature. The goal of this paper is to advocate
their wider adoption for performance evaluation in empirical machine learning.


Pushing Your Point of View: Behavioral Measures of Manipulation in
  Wikipedia

  As a major source for information on virtually any topic, Wikipedia serves an
important role in public dissemination and consumption of knowledge. As a
result, it presents tremendous potential for people to promulgate their own
points of view; such efforts may be more subtle than typical vandalism. In this
paper, we introduce new behavioral metrics to quantify the level of controversy
associated with a particular user: a Controversy Score (C-Score) based on the
amount of attention the user focuses on controversial pages, and a Clustered
Controversy Score (CC-Score) that also takes into account topical clustering.
We show that both these measures are useful for identifying people who try to
"push" their points of view, by showing that they are good predictors of which
editors get blocked. The metrics can be used to triage potential POV pushers.
We apply this idea to a dataset of users who requested promotion to
administrator status and easily identify some editors who significantly changed
their behavior upon becoming administrators. At the same time, such behavior is
not rampant. Those who are promoted to administrator status tend to have more
stable behavior than comparable groups of prolific editors. This suggests that
the Adminship process works well, and that the Wikipedia community is not
overwhelmed by users who become administrators to promote their own points of
view.


Near-Optimal Target Learning With Stochastic Binary Signals

  We study learning in a noisy bisection model: specifically, Bayesian
algorithms to learn a target value V given access only to noisy realizations of
whether V is less than or greater than a threshold theta. At step t = 0, 1, 2,
..., the learner sets threshold theta t and observes a noisy realization of
sign(V - theta t). After T steps, the goal is to output an estimate V^ which is
within an eta-tolerance of V . This problem has been studied, predominantly in
environments with a fixed error probability q < 1/2 for the noisy realization
of sign(V - theta t). In practice, it is often the case that q can approach
1/2, especially as theta -> V, and there is little known when this happens. We
give a pseudo-Bayesian algorithm which provably converges to V. When the true
prior matches our algorithm's Gaussian prior, we show near-optimal expected
performance. Our methods extend to the general multiple-threshold setting where
the observation noisily indicates which of k >= 2 regions V belongs to.


Home Is Where the Up-Votes Are: Behavior Changes in Response to Feedback
  in Social Media

  Recent research shows that humans are heavily influenced by online social
interactions: We are more likely to perform actions which, in the past, have
led to positive social feedback. We introduce a quantitative model of behavior
changes in response to such feedback, drawing on inverse reinforcement learning
and studies of human game playing. The model allows us to make predictions,
particularly in the context of social media, about which community a user will
select, and to quantify how future selections change based on the feedback a
user receives. We show that our model predicts real-world changes in behavior
on a dataset gathered from reddit. We also explore how this relatively simple
model of individual behavior can lead to complex collective dynamics when there
is a population of users, each individual learning in response to feedback and
in turn providing feedback to others.


On Manipulation in Prediction Markets When Participants Influence
  Outcomes Directly

  Prediction markets are often used as mechanisms to aggregate information
about a future event, for example, whether a candidate will win an election.
The event is typically assumed to be exogenous. In reality, participants may
influence the outcome, and therefore (1) running the prediction market could
change the incentives of participants in the process that creates the outcome
(for example, agents may want to change their vote in an election), and (2)
simple results such as the myopic incentive compatibility of proper scoring
rules no longer hold in the prediction market itself. We introduce a model of
games of this kind, where agents first trade in a prediction market and then
take an action that influences the market outcome. Our two-stage two-player
model, despite its simplicity, captures two aspects of real-world prediction
markets: (1) agents may directly influence the outcome, (2) some of the agents
instrumental in deciding the outcome may not take part in the prediction
market. We show that this game has two different types of perfect Bayesian
equilibria, which we term LPP and HPP, depending on the values of the belief
parameters: in the LPP domain, equilibrium prices reveal expected market
outcomes conditional on the participants' private information, whereas HPP
equilibria are collusive -- participants effectively coordinate in an
uninformative and untruthful way.


