Controller Synthesis for Linear Time-varying Systems with Adversaries

  We present a controller synthesis algorithm for a discrete time reach-avoidproblem in the presence of adversaries. Our model of the adversary capturestypical malicious attacks envisioned on cyber-physical systems such as sensorspoofing, controller corruption, and actuator intrusion. After formulating theproblem in a general setting, we present a sound and complete algorithm for thecase with linear dynamics and an adversary with a budget on the total L2-normof its actions. The algorithm relies on a result from linear control theorythat enables us to decompose and precisely compute the reachable states of thesystem in terms of a symbolic simulation of the adversary-free dynamics and thetotal uncertainty induced by the adversary. With this decomposition, thesynthesis problem eliminates the universal quantifier on the adversary'schoices and the symbolic controller actions can be effectively solved using anSMT solver. The constraints induced by the adversary are computed by solvingsecond-order cone programmings. The algorithm is later extended to synthesizestate-dependent controller and to generate attacks for the adversary. Wepresent preliminary experimental results that show the effectiveness of thisapproach on several example problems.

Differentially Private Iterative Synchronous Consensus

  The iterative consensus problem requires a set of processes or agents withdifferent initial values, to interact and update their states to eventuallyconverge to a common value. Protocols solving iterative consensus serve asbuilding blocks in a variety of systems where distributed coordination isrequired for load balancing, data aggregation, sensor fusion, filtering, clocksynchronization and platooning of autonomous vehicles. In this paper, weintroduce the private iterative consensus problem where agents are required toconverge while protecting the privacy of their initial values from honest butcurious adversaries. Protecting the initial states, in many applications,suffice to protect all subsequent states of the individual participants.  First, we adapt the notion of differential privacy in this setting ofiterative computation. Next, we present a server-based and a completelydistributed randomized mechanism for solving private iterative consensus withadversaries who can observe the messages as well as the internal states of theserver and a subset of the clients. Finally, we establish the tradeoff betweenprivacy and the accuracy of the proposed randomized mechanism.

Proving Abstractions of Dynamical Systems through Numerical Simulations

  A key question that arises in rigorous analysis of cyberphysical systemsunder attack involves establishing whether or not the attacked system deviatessignificantly from the ideal allowed behavior. This is the problem of decidingwhether or not the ideal system is an abstraction of the attacked system. Aquantitative variation of this question can capture how much the attackedsystem deviates from the ideal. Thus, algorithms for deciding abstractionrelations can help measure the effect of attacks on cyberphysical systems andto develop attack detection strategies. In this paper, we present a decisionprocedure for proving that one nonlinear dynamical system is a quantitativeabstraction of another. Directly computing the reach sets of these nonlinearsystems are undecidable in general and reach set over-approximations do notgive a direct way for proving abstraction. Our procedure uses (possiblyinaccurate) numerical simulations and a model annotation to compute tightapproximations of the observable behaviors of the system and then uses theseapproximations to decide on abstraction. We show that the procedure is soundand that it is guaranteed to terminate under reasonable robustness assumptions.

Bounded Verification with On-the-Fly Discrepancy Computation

  Simulation-based verification algorithms can provide formal safety guaranteesfor nonlinear and hybrid systems. The previous algorithms rely on user providedmodel annotations called discrepancy function, which are crucial for computingreachtubes from simulations. In this paper, we eliminate this requirement bypresenting an algorithm for computing piece-wise exponential discrepancyfunctions. The algorithm relies on computing local convergence or divergencerates of trajectories along a simulation using a coarse over-approximation ofthe reach set and bounding the maximal eigenvalue of the Jacobian over thisover-approximation. The resulting discrepancy function preserves the soundnessand the relative completeness of the verification algorithm. We also provide acoordinate transformation method to improve the local estimates for theconvergence or divergence rates in practical examples. We extend the method toget the input-to-state discrepancy of nonlinear dynamical systems which can beused for compositional analysis. Our experiments show that the approach iseffective in terms of running time for several benchmark problems, scalesreasonably to larger dimensional systems, and compares favorably with respectto available tools for nonlinear models.

StarL: Towards a Unified Framework for Programming, Simulating and  Verifying Distributed Robotic Systems

  We developed StarL as a framework for programming, simulating, and verifyingdistributed systems that interacts with physical processes. StarL framework has(a) a collection of distributed primitives for coordination, such as mutualexclusion, registration and geocast that can be used to build sophisticatedapplications, (b) theory libraries for verifying StarL applications in the PVStheorem prover, and (c) an execution environment that can be used to deploy theapplications on hardware or to execute them in a discrete event simulator. Theprimitives have (i) abstract, nondeterministic specifications in terms ofinvariants, and assume-guarantee style progress properties, (ii)implementations in Java/Android that always satisfy the invariants and attemptprogress using best effort strategies. The PVS theories specify the invariantand progress properties of the primitives, and have to be appropriatelyinstantiated and composed with the application's state machine to proveproperties about the application. We have built two execution environments: onefor deploying applications on Android/iRobot Create platform and a second onefor simulating large instantiations of the applications in a discrete evensimulator. The capabilities are illustrated with a StarL application forvehicle to vehicle coordination in a automatic intersection that usesprimitives for point-to-point motion, mutual exclusion, and registration.

Porting Code Across Simple Mobile Robots

  The StarL programming framework aims to simplify development of distributedrobotic applications by providing easy-to-use language constructs forcommunication and control. It has been used to develop applications such asformation control, distributed tracking, and collaborative search. In thispaper, we present a complete redesign of the StarL language and its runtimesystem which enables us to achieve portability of robot programs acrossplatforms. Thus, the same application program, say, for distributed tracking,can now be compiled and deployed on multiple, heterogeneous robotic platforms.Towards portability, this we first define the semantics of StarL programs in away that is largely platform independent, except for a few keyplatform-dependent parameters that capture the worst-case execution and sensingdelays and resolution of sensors. Next, we present a design of the StarLruntime system, including a robot controller, that meets the above semantics.The controller consists of a platform-independent path planner implementedusing RRTs and a platform-dependent way-point tracker that is implemented usingthe control commands available for the platform. We demonstrate portability ofStarL applications using simulation results for two different roboticplatforms, and several applications.

Model Checking Tap Withdrawal in C. Elegans

  We present what we believe to be the first formal verification of abiologically realistic (nonlinear ODE) model of a neural circuit in amulticellular organism: Tap Withdrawal (TW) in \emph{C. Elegans}, the commonroundworm. TW is a reflexive behavior exhibited by \emph{C. Elegans} inresponse to vibrating the surface on which it is moving; the neural circuitunderlying this response is the subject of this investigation. Specifically, weperform reachability analysis on the TW circuit model of Wicks et al. (1996),which enables us to estimate key circuit parameters. Underlying our approach isthe use of Fan and Mitra's recently developed technique for automaticallycomputing local discrepancy (convergence and divergence rates) of generalnonlinear systems. We show that the results we obtain are in agreement with theexperimental results of Wicks et al. (1995). As opposed to the fixed parametersfound in most biological models, which can only produce the predominantbehavior, our techniques characterize ranges of parameters that produce (and donot produce) all three observed behaviors: reversal of movement, acceleration,and lack of response.

Bounded epsilon-Reach Set Computation of a Class of Deterministic and  Transversal Linear Hybrid Automata

  We define a special class of hybrid automata, called Deterministic andTransversal Linear Hybrid Automata (DTLHA), whose continuous dynamics in eachlocation are linear time-invariant (LTI) with a constant input, and for whichevery discrete transition up to a given bounded time is deterministic and,importantly, transversal. For such a DTLHA starting from an initial state, weshow that it is possible to compute an approximation of the reach set of aDTLHA over a finite time interval that is arbitrarily close to the exact reachset, called a bounded epsilon-reach set, through sampling and polyhedralover-approximation of sampled states. We propose an algorithm and an attendantarchitecture for the overall bounded epsilon-reach set computation process.

Differentially Private Distributed Optimization

  In distributed optimization and iterative consensus literature, a standardproblem is for $N$ agents to minimize a function $f$ over a subset of Euclideanspace, where the cost function is expressed as a sum $\sum f_i$. In this paper,we study the private distributed optimization (PDOP) problem with theadditional requirement that the cost function of the individual agents shouldremain differentially private. The adversary attempts to infer informationabout the private cost functions from the messages that the agents exchange.Achieving differential privacy requires that any change of an individual's costfunction only results in unsubstantial changes in the statistics of themessages. We propose a class of iterative algorithms for solving PDOP, whichachieves differential privacy and convergence to the optimal value. Ouranalysis reveals the dependence of the achieved accuracy and the privacy levelson the the parameters of the algorithm. We observe that to achieve$\epsilon$-differential privacy the accuracy of the algorithm has the order of$O(\frac{1}{\epsilon^2})$.

Controller Synthesis with Inductive Proofs for Piecewise Linear Systems:  an SMT-based Algorithm

  We present a controller synthesis algorithm for reach-avoid problems forpiecewise linear discrete-time systems. Our algorithm relies on SMT solvers andin this paper we focus on piecewise constant control strategies. Our algorithmgenerates feedback control laws together with inductive proofs of unboundedtime safety and progress properties with respect to the reach-avoid sets. Undera reasonable robustness assump- tion, the algorithm is shown to be complete.That is, it either generates a controller of the above type along with a proofof correctness, or it establishes the impossibility of the existence of suchcontrollers. To achieve this, the algorithm iteratively attempts to solve aweakened and strengthened versions of the SMT encoding of the reach-avoidproblem. We present preliminary experimental results on applying this algorithmbased on a prototype implementation.

Approximate Partial Order Reduction

  We present a new partial order reduction method for reachability analysis ofnondeterministic labeled transition systems over metric spaces. Nondeterminismarises from both the choice of the initial state and the choice of actions, andthe number of executions to be explored grows exponentially with their length.We introduce a notion of $\varepsilon$-independence relation over actions thatrelate approximately commutative actions; $\varepsilon$-equivalent actionsequences are obtained by swapping $\varepsilon$-independent consecutive actionpairs. Our reachability algorithm generalizes individual executions to coversets of executions that start from different, but $\delta$-close initialstates, and follow different, but $\varepsilon$-independent, action sequences.The constructed over-approximations can be made arbitrarily precise by reducingthe $\delta,\varepsilon$ parameters. Exploiting both the continuity of actionsand their approximate independence, the algorithm can yield an exponentialreduction in the number of executions explored. We illustrate this withexperiments on consensus, platooning, and distributed control examples.

DRYVR:Data-driven verification and compositional reasoning for  automotive systems

  We present the DRYVR framework for verifying hybrid control systems that aredescribed by a combination of a black-box simulator for trajectories and awhite-box transition graph specifying mode switches. The framework includes (a)a probabilistic algorithm for learning sensitivity of the continuoustrajectories from simulation data, (b) a bounded reachability analysisalgorithm that uses the learned sensitivity, and (c) reasoning techniques basedon simulation relations and sequential composition, that enable verification ofcomplex systems under long switching sequences, from the reachability analysisof a simpler system under shorter sequences. We demonstrate the utility of theframework by verifying a suite of automotive benchmarks that include powertraincontrol, automatic transmission, and several autonomous and ADAS features likeautomatic emergency braking, lane-merge, and auto-passing controllers.

Verifying safety of an autonomous spacecraft rendezvous mission

  A fundamental maneuver in autonomous space operations is known as rendezvous,where a spacecraft navigates to and approaches another spacecraft. In this casestudy, we present linear and nonlinear benchmark models of an active chaserspacecraft performing rendezvous toward a passive, orbiting target. The systemis modeled as a hybrid automaton, where the chaser must adhere to differentsets of constraints in each discrete mode. A switched LQR controller isdesigned accordingly to meet this collection of physical and geometric safetyconstraints, while maintaining liveness in navigating toward the targetspacecraft. We extend this benchmark problem to check for passive safety, whichis collision avoidance along a passive, propulsion-free trajectory that may befollowed in the event of system failures. We show that existing hybridverification tools like SpaceEx, C2E2, and our own implementation of asimulation-driven verification tool can robustly verify this system withrespect to the requirements, and a variety of relevant initial conditions.

Verifying nonlinear analog and mixed-signal circuits with inputs

  We present a new technique for verifying nonlinear and hybrid models withinputs. We observe that once an input signal is fixed, the sensitivity analysisof the model can be computed much more precisely. Based on this result, wepropose a new simulation-driven verification algorithm and apply it to a suiteof nonlinear and hybrid models of CMOS digital circuits under different inputsignals. The models are low-dimensional but with highly nonlinear ODEs, withnearly hundreds of logarithmic and exponential terms. Some of our experimentsanalyze the metastability of bistable circuits with very sensitive ODEs andrigorously establish the connection between metastability recovery time andsensitivity.

CODEV: Automated Model Predictive Control Design and Formal Verification  (Tool Paper)

  We present CODEV, a Matlab-based tool for verifying systems employing ModelPredictive Control (MPC). The MPC solution is computed offline and modeledtogether with the physical system as a hybrid automaton, whose continuousdynamics may be nonlinear with a control solution that remains affine. WhileMPC is a widely used synthesis technique for constrained and optimal control inindustry, our tool provides the first automated approach of analyzing thesesystems for rigorous guarantees of safety. This is achieved by implementing asimulation-based verification algorithm for nonlinear hybrid models, withextensions tailored to the structure of the MPC solution. Given a physicalmodel and parameters for desired system behavior (i.e. performance andconstraints), CODEV generates a control law and verifies the resulting systemwill robustly maintain constraints. We have applied CODEV successfully to a setof benchmark examples, which illuminates its potential to tackle more complexproblems for which MPC is used.

Safe and Stabilizing Distributed Multi-Path Cellular Flows

  We study the problem of distributed traffic control in the partitioned plane,where the movement of all entities (robots, vehicles, etc.) within eachpartition (cell) is coupled. Establishing liveness in such systems ischallenging, but such analysis will be necessary to apply such distributedtraffic control algorithms in applications like coordinating robot swarms andthe intelligent highway system. We present a formal model of a distributedtraffic control protocol that guarantees minimum separation between entities,even as some cells fail. Once new failures cease occurring, in the case of asingle target, the protocol is guaranteed to self-stabilize and the entitieswith feasible paths to the target cell make progress towards it. For multipletargets, failures may cause deadlocks in the system, so we identify a class ofnon-deadlocking failures where all entities are able to make progress to theirrespective targets. The algorithm relies on two general principles: temporaryblocking for maintenance of safety and local geographical routing forguaranteeing progress. Our assertional proofs may serve as a template for theanalysis of other distributed traffic control protocols. We present simulationresults that provide estimates of throughput as a function of entity velocity,safety separation, single-target path complexity, failure-recovery rates, andmulti-target path complexity.

Trajectory Aware Macro-cell Planning for Mobile Users

  We design and evaluate algorithms for efficient user-mobility drivenmacro-cell planning in cellular networks. As cellular networks embraceheterogeneous technologies (including long range 3G/4G and short range WiFi,Femto-cells, etc.), most traffic generated by static users gets absorbed by theshort-range technologies, thereby increasingly leaving mobile user traffic tomacro-cells. To this end, we consider a novel approach that factors in thetrajectories of mobile users as well as the impact of city geographies andtheir associated road networks for macro-cell planning. Given a budget k ofbase-stations that can be upgraded, our approach selects a deployment thatimpacts the most number of user trajectories. The generic formulationincorporates the notion of quality of service of a user trajectory as aparameter to allow different application-specific requirements, and operatorchoices.We show that the proposed trajectory utility maximization problem isNP-hard, and design multiple heuristics. We evaluate our algorithms with realand synthetic data sets emulating different city geographies to demonstratetheir efficacy. For instance, with an upgrade budget k of 20%, our algorithmsperform 3-8 times better in improving the user quality of service ontrajectories in different city geographies when compared to greedylocation-based base-station upgrades.

NetClus: A Scalable Framework for Locating Top-K Sites for Placement of  Trajectory-Aware Services

  Facility location queries identify the best locations to set up newfacilities for providing service to its users. Majority of the existing worksin this space assume that the user locations are static. Such limitations aretoo restrictive for planning many modern real-life services such as fuelstations, ATMs, convenience stores, cellphone base-stations, etc. that arewidely accessed by mobile users. The placement of such services should,therefore, factor in the mobility patterns or trajectories of the users ratherthan simply their static locations. In this work, we introduce the TOPS(Trajectory-Aware Optimal Placement of Services) query that locates the best ksites on a road network. The aim is to optimize a wide class of objectivefunctions defined over the user trajectories. We show that the problem isNP-hard and even the greedy heuristic with an approximation bound of (1-1/e)fails to scale on urban-scale datasets. To overcome this challenge, we developa multi-resolution clustering based indexing framework called NetClus.Empirical studies on real road network trajectory datasets show that NetClusoffers solutions that are comparable in terms of quality with those of thegreedy heuristic, while having practical response times and low memoryfootprints. Additionally, the NetClus framework can absorb dynamic updates inmobility patterns, handle constraints such as site-costs and capacity, andexisting services, thereby providing an effective solution for modernurban-scale scenarios.

Road to safe autonomy with data and formal reasoning

  We present an overview of recently developed data-driven tools for safetyanalysis of autonomous vehicles and advanced driver assist systems. The corealgorithms combine model-based, hybrid system reachability analysis withsensitivity analysis of components with unknown or inaccessible models. Weillustrate the applicability of this approach with a new case study ofemergency braking systems in scenarios with two or three vehicles. This problemis representative of the most common type of rear-end crashes, which isrelevant for safety analysis of automatic emergency braking (AEB) and forwardcollision avoidance systems. We show that our verification tool can effectivelyprove the safety of certain scenarios (specified by several parameters likebraking profiles, initial velocities, uncertainties in position and reactiontimes), and also compute the severity of accidents for unsafe scenarios.Through hundreds of verification experiments, we quantified the safety envelopeof the system across relevant parameters. These results show that the approachis promising for design, debugging and certification. We also show how thereachability analysis can be combined with statistical information about theparameters, to assess the risk level of the control system, which in turn isessential, for example, for determining Automotive Safety Integrity Levels(ASIL) for the ISO26262 standard.

