An Efficiently Solvable Quadratic Program for Stabilizing Dynamic
  Locomotion

  We describe a whole-body dynamic walking controller implemented as a convex
quadratic program. The controller solves an optimal control problem using an
approximate value function derived from a simple walking model while respecting
the dynamic, input, and contact constraints of the full robot dynamics. By
exploiting sparsity and temporal structure in the optimization with a custom
active-set algorithm, we surpass the performance of the best available
off-the-shelf solvers and achieve 1kHz control rates for a 34-DOF humanoid. We
describe applications to balancing and walking tasks using the simulated Atlas
robot in the DARPA Virtual Robotics Challenge.


Finding Asteroids Down the Back of the Couch: A Novel Approach to the
  Minor Planet Linking Problem

  We present a novel approach to the minor planet linking problem. Our
heliocentric transformation-and-propagation algorithm clusters tracklets at
common epochs, allowing for the efficient identification of tracklets that
represent the same minor planet. This algorithm scales as $O(N log N)$, with
the number of tracklets $N$, a significant advance over standard methods, which
scale as $O(N^3)$. This overcomes one of the primary computational bottlenecks
faced by current and future asteroid surveys. We apply our algorithm to the
Minor Planet Center's Isolated Tracklet File, establishing orbits for
$\sim41,000$ new minor planets.


Contact-Implicit Optimization of Locomotion Trajectories for a
  Quadrupedal Microrobot

  Planning locomotion trajectories for legged microrobots is challenging
because of their complex morphology, high frequency passive dynamics, and
discontinuous contact interactions with their environment. Consequently, such
research is often driven by time-consuming experimental methods. As an
alternative, we present a framework for systematically modeling, planning, and
controlling legged microrobots. We develop a three-dimensional dynamic model of
a 1.5 gram quadrupedal microrobot with complexity (e.g., number of degrees of
freedom) similar to larger-scale legged robots. We then adapt a recently
developed variational contact-implicit trajectory optimization method to
generate feasible whole-body locomotion plans for this microrobot, and we
demonstrate that these plans can be tracked with simple joint-space
controllers. We plan and execute periodic gaits at multiple stride frequencies
and on various surfaces. These gaits achieve high per-cycle velocities,
including a maximum of 10.87 mm/cycle, which is 15% faster than previously
measured velocities for this microrobot. Furthermore, we plan and execute a
vertical jump of 9.96 mm, which is 78% of the microrobot's center-of-mass
height. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first end-to-end
demonstration of planning and tracking whole-body dynamic locomotion on a
millimeter-scale legged microrobot.


Effective Locomotion at Multiple Stride Frequencies Using Proprioceptive
  Feedback on a Legged Microrobot

  Limitations in actuation, sensing, and computation have forced small legged
robots to rely on carefully tuned, mechanically mediated leg trajectories for
effective locomotion. Recent advances in manufacturing, however, have enabled
the development of small legged robots capable of operation at multiple stride
frequencies using multi-degree-of-freedom leg trajectories. Proprioceptive
sensing and control is key to extending the capabilities of these robots to a
broad range of operating conditions. In this work, we leverage concomitant
sensing for piezoelectric actuation to develop a computationally efficient
framework for estimation and control of leg trajectories on a quadrupedal
microrobot. We demonstrate accurate position estimation ($<$16%
root-mean-square error) and control ($<$16% root-mean-square tracking error)
during locomotion across a wide range of stride frequencies (10-50 Hz). This
capability enables the exploration of two parametric leg trajectories designed
to reduce leg slip and increase locomotion performance (e.g., speed,
cost-of-transport, etc.). Using this approach, we demonstrate high performance
locomotion at stride frequencies of (10-30 Hz) where the robot's natural
dynamics result in poor open-loop locomotion. Furthermore, we identify regions
of highly dynamic locomotion, low cost-of-transport (3.33), and minimal leg
slippage ($<$10%).


