Multiagent Soft Q-Learning

  Policy gradient methods are often applied to reinforcement learning in
continuous multiagent games. These methods perform local search in the
joint-action space, and as we show, they are susceptable to a game-theoretic
pathology known as relative overgeneralization. To resolve this issue, we
propose Multiagent Soft Q-learning, which can be seen as the analogue of
applying Q-learning to continuous controls. We compare our method to MADDPG, a
state-of-the-art approach, and show that our method achieves better
coordination in multiagent cooperative tasks, converging to better local optima
in the joint action space.


Hierarchical Approaches for Reinforcement Learning in Parameterized
  Action Space

  We explore Deep Reinforcement Learning in a parameterized action space.
Specifically, we investigate how to achieve sample-efficient end-to-end
training in these tasks. We propose a new compact architecture for the tasks
where the parameter policy is conditioned on the output of the discrete action
policy. We also propose two new methods based on the state-of-the-art
algorithms Trust Region Policy Optimization (TRPO) and Stochastic Value
Gradient (SVG) to train such an architecture. We demonstrate that these methods
outperform the state of the art method, Parameterized Action DDPG, on test
domains.


Summing Sudakov logarithms in B -> X_s + gamma in effective field theory

  We construct an effective field theory valid for processes in which highly
energetic light-like particles interact with collinear and soft degrees of
freedom, using the decay B -> X_s + gamma near the endpoint of the photon
spectrum, x = 2 E_gamma / m_b -> 1, as an example. Below the scale mu=m_b both
soft and collinear degrees of freedom are included in the effective theory,
while below the scale mu=m_b sqrt{x-y}, where 1-y is the lightcone momentum
fraction of the b quark in the B meson, we match onto a theory of bilocal
operators. We show that at one loop large logarithms cancel in the matching
conditions, and that we recover the well known renormalization group equations
that sum leading Sudakov logarithms.


Turbulence in Core-Collapse Supernovae

  Multidimensional simulations show that non-radial, turbulent, fluid motion is
a fundamental component of the core-collapse supernova (CCSN) explosion
mechanism. Neutrino-driven convection, the standing accretion shock
instability, and relic-perturbations from advanced stages of nuclear burning
can all impact the outcome of core collapse in a qualitative and quantitative
way. Here, we review the current understanding of these phenomena and their
role in the explosion of massive stars. We also discuss the role of
protoneutron star convection and of magnetic fields in the context of the
delayed neutrino mechanism.


Compton Scattering from the Deuteron below Pion-Production Threshold

  Differential cross sections for elastic scattering of photons from the
deuteron have recently been measured at the Tagged-Photon Facility at the MAX
IV Laboratory in Lund, Sweden. These first new measurements in more than a
decade further constrain the isoscalar electromagnetic polarizabilities of the
nucleon and provide the first-ever results above 100 MeV, where the sensitivity
to the polarizabilities is increased. We add 23 points between 70 and 112 MeV,
at angles 60deg, 120deg and 150deg. Analysis of these data using a Chiral
Effective Field Theory indicates that the cross sections are both
self-consistent and consistent with previous measurements. Extracted values of
\alpha_s = [12.1 +/- 0.8(stat) +/- 0.2(BSR) +/- 0.8(th)] X 10^{-4} fm^3 and
\beta_s = [2.4 +/- 0.8(stat) +/- 0.2(BSR) +/- 0.8(th)] X 10^{-4} fm^3 are
obtained from a fit to these 23 new data points. This paper presents in detail
the experimental conditions and the data analysis used to extract the cross
sections.


Magnons and Phonons Optically Driven Out of Local Equilibrium in a
  Magnetic Insulator

  Magnons are the energy quanta of fundamental spin excitations, namely spin
waves, and they can make a considerable contribution to energy transport in
some magnetic materials in a similar manner as lattice vibration waves or
phonons. The coupling and possible non-equilibrium between magnons and other
energy carriers have been used to explain several recently discovered thermally
driven spin transport and energy conversion phenomena. Here, we report
experiments in which local non-equilibrium between magnons and phonons in a
single crystalline bulk magnetic insulator, Y3Fe5O12 (yttrium iron garnet, or
YIG), has been created optically within a focused laser spot and probed
directly with the use of micro-Brillouin light scattering (BLS). By analyzing
the experimental results with a thermally induced magnon diffusion model, we
obtain the magnon diffusion length of thermal magnons. By explicitly
establishing non-equilibrium between magnons and phonons, our studies represent
an important step toward a quantitative understanding of various spin-heat
coupling phenomena.


Solar System Ice Giants: Exoplanets in our Backyard

  Future remote sensing of exoplanets will be enhanced by a thorough
investigation of our solar system Ice Giants (Neptune-size planets). What can
the configuration of the magnetic field tell us (remotely) about the interior,
and what implications does that field have for the structure of the
magnetosphere; energy input into the atmosphere, and surface geophysics (for
example surface weathering of satellites that might harbour sub-surface
oceans). How can monitoring of auroral emission help inform future remote
observations of emission from exoplanets? Our Solar System provides the only
laboratory in which we can perform in-situ experiments to understand exoplanet
formation, dynamos, systems and magnetospheres.


Multiwavelength study of the newly confirmed supernova remnant MCSNR
  J0527-7104 in the Large Magellanic Cloud

  The Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC) hosts a rich and varied population of
supernova remnants (SNRs). Optical, X-ray, and radio observations are required
to identify these SNRs, as well as to ascertain the various processes
responsible for the large array of physical characteristics observed. In this
paper we attempted to confirm the candidate SNR [HP99] 1234, identified in
X-rays with ROSAT, as a true SNR by supplementing these X-ray data with optical
and radio observations. Optical data from the Magellanic Cloud Emission Line
Survey (MCELS) and new radio data from the Molonglo Observatory Synthesis
Telescope (MOST), in addition to the ROSAT X-ray data, were used to perform a
morphological analysis of this candidate SNR. An approximately ellipsoidal
shell of enhanced [SII], typical of an SNR ([SII]/Halpha > 0.4), was detected
in the optical. This enhancement is coincident with faint radio emission at 36
cm. Using the available data we estimated the size of the remnant to be ~5.1' x
4.0' (~75 pc x 59 pc). However, the measurement along the major-axis was
somewhat uncertain due to a lack of optical and radio emission at its
extremities and the poor resolution of the X-ray data. Assuming this SNR is in
the Sedov phase and adopting the ambient mass density of 1.2x10^-25 g cm^-3
measured in a nearby HII region, an age estimate of ~25 kyr was calculated for
a canonical initial explosion energy of 10^51 erg. However, this age estimate
should be treated cautiously due to uncertainties on the adopted parameters.
Analysis of the local stellar population suggested a type Ia event as a
precursor to this SNR, however, a core-collapse mechanism could not be ruled
out due to the possibility of the progenitor being a runaway massive star. With
the detection of X-ray, radio and optical line emission with enhanced [SII],
this object was confirmed as an SNR and we assign the identifier MCSNR
J0527-7104.


Multi-frequency study of DEM L299 in the Large Magellanic Cloud

  We have studied the HII region DEM L299 in the Large Magellanic Cloud to
understand its physical characteristics and morphology in different
wavelengths. We performed a spectral analysis of archived XMM-Newton EPIC data
and studied the morphology of DEM L299 in X-ray, optical, and radio
wavelengths. We used H alpha, [SII], and [OIII] data from the Magellanic Cloud
Emission Line Survey and radio 21 cm line data from the Australia Telescope
Compact Array (ATCA) and the Parkes telescope, and radio continuum data from
ATCA and the Molonglo Synthesis Telescope. Our morphological studies imply
that, in addition to the supernova remnant SNR B0543-68.9 reported in previous
studies, a superbubble also overlaps the SNR in projection. The position of the
SNR is clearly defined through the [SII]/H alpha flux ratio image. Moreover,
the optical images show a shell-like structure that is located farther to the
north and is filled with diffuse X-ray emission, which again indicates the
superbubble. Radio 21 cm line data show a shell around both objects. Radio
continuum data show diffuse emission at the position of DEM L299, which appears
clearly distinguished from the HII region N 164 that lies south-west of it. We
determined the spectral index of SNR B0543-68.9 to be alpha=-0.34, which
indicates the dominance of thermal emission and therefore a rather mature SNR.
We determined the basic properties of the diffuse X-ray emission for the SNR,
the superbubble, and a possible blowout region of the bubble, as suggested by
the optical and X-ray data. We obtained an age of 8.9 (3.5-18.1) kyr for the
SNR and a temperature of 0.64 (0.44-1.37) keV for the hot gas inside the SNR,
and a temperature of the hot gas inside the superbubble of 0.74 (0.44-1.1) keV.
We conclude that DEM L299 consists of a superposition of SNR B0543-68.9 and a
superbubble, which we identified based on optical data.


Two evolved supernova remnants with newly identified Fe-rich cores in
  the Large Magellanic Cloud

  Aims. We present a multi-wavelength analysis of the evolved supernova
remnants MCSNR J0506-7025 and MCSNR J0527-7104 in the Large Magellanic Cloud.
Methods. We used data from XMM-Newton, the Australian Telescope Compact Array,
and the Magellanic Cloud Emission Line Survey to study their broadband emission
and used Spitzer and HI data to gain a picture of their environments. We
performed a multi-wavelength morphological study and detailed radio and X-ray
spectral analyses to determine their physical characteristics. Results. Both
remnants were found to have bright X-ray cores, dominated by Fe L-shell
emission, consistent with reverse shock heated ejecta with determined Fe masses
in agreement with Type Ia explosion yields. A soft X-ray shell, consistent with
swept-up interstellar medium, was observed in MCSNR J0506-7025, suggestive of a
remnant in the Sedov phase. Using the spectral fit results and the Sedov
self-similar solution, we estimated the age of MCSNR J0506-7025 to be ~16-28
kyr, with an initial explosion energy of (0.07-0.84)x10^51 erg. A soft shell
was absent in MCSNR J0527-7104, with only ejecta emission visible in an
extremely elongated morphology extending beyond the optical shell. We suggest
that the blast wave has broken out into a low density cavity, allowing the
shock heated ejecta to escape. We found that the radio spectral index of MCSNR
J0506-7025 is consistent with the standard ~0.5 for SNRs. Radio polarisation at
6 cm indicates a higher degree of polarisation along the western front and at
the eastern knot, with a mean fractional polarisation across the remnant of
P~(20 \pm 6)%. Conclusions. The detection of Fe-rich ejecta in the remnants
suggests that both resulted from Type Ia explosions. The newly identified
Fe-rich cores in MCSNR J0506-7025 and MCSNR J0527-7104 makes them members of
the expanding class of evolved Fe-rich remnants in the Magellanic Clouds.


FRIB and the GW170817 Kilonova

  In July 2018 an FRIB Theory Alliance program was held on the implications of
GW170817 and its associated kilonova for r-process nucleosynthesis. Topics of
discussion included the astrophysical and nuclear physics uncertainties in the
interpretation of the GW170817 kilonova, what we can learn about the
astrophysical site or sites of the r process from this event, and the advances
in nuclear experiment and theory most crucial to pursue in light of the new
data. Here we compile a selection of scientific contributions to the workshop,
broadly representative of progress in r-process studies since the GW170817
event.


Catching Element Formation In The Act

  Gamma-ray astronomy explores the most energetic photons in nature to address
some of the most pressing puzzles in contemporary astrophysics. It encompasses
a wide range of objects and phenomena: stars, supernovae, novae, neutron stars,
stellar-mass black holes, nucleosynthesis, the interstellar medium, cosmic rays
and relativistic-particle acceleration, and the evolution of galaxies. MeV
gamma-rays provide a unique probe of nuclear processes in astronomy, directly
measuring radioactive decay, nuclear de-excitation, and positron annihilation.
The substantial information carried by gamma-ray photons allows us to see
deeper into these objects, the bulk of the power is often emitted at gamma-ray
energies, and radioactivity provides a natural physical clock that adds unique
information. New science will be driven by time-domain population studies at
gamma-ray energies. This science is enabled by next-generation gamma-ray
instruments with one to two orders of magnitude better sensitivity, larger sky
coverage, and faster cadence than all previous gamma-ray instruments. This
transformative capability permits: (a) the accurate identification of the
gamma-ray emitting objects and correlations with observations taken at other
wavelengths and with other messengers; (b) construction of new gamma-ray maps
of the Milky Way and other nearby galaxies where extended regions are
distinguished from point sources; and (c) considerable serendipitous science of
scarce events -- nearby neutron star mergers, for example. Advances in
technology push the performance of new gamma-ray instruments to address a wide
set of astrophysical questions.


A Roadmap for HEP Software and Computing R&D for the 2020s

  Particle physics has an ambitious and broad experimental programme for the
coming decades. This programme requires large investments in detector hardware,
either to build new facilities and experiments, or to upgrade existing ones.
Similarly, it requires commensurate investment in the R&D of software to
acquire, manage, process, and analyse the shear amounts of data to be recorded.
In planning for the HL-LHC in particular, it is critical that all of the
collaborating stakeholders agree on the software goals and priorities, and that
the efforts complement each other. In this spirit, this white paper describes
the R&D activities required to prepare for this software upgrade.


The Long-Baseline Neutrino Experiment: Exploring Fundamental Symmetries
  of the Universe

  The preponderance of matter over antimatter in the early Universe, the
dynamics of the supernova bursts that produced the heavy elements necessary for
life and whether protons eventually decay --- these mysteries at the forefront
of particle physics and astrophysics are key to understanding the early
evolution of our Universe, its current state and its eventual fate. The
Long-Baseline Neutrino Experiment (LBNE) represents an extensively developed
plan for a world-class experiment dedicated to addressing these questions. LBNE
is conceived around three central components: (1) a new, high-intensity
neutrino source generated from a megawatt-class proton accelerator at Fermi
National Accelerator Laboratory, (2) a near neutrino detector just downstream
of the source, and (3) a massive liquid argon time-projection chamber deployed
as a far detector deep underground at the Sanford Underground Research
Facility. This facility, located at the site of the former Homestake Mine in
Lead, South Dakota, is approximately 1,300 km from the neutrino source at
Fermilab -- a distance (baseline) that delivers optimal sensitivity to neutrino
charge-parity symmetry violation and mass ordering effects. This ambitious yet
cost-effective design incorporates scalability and flexibility and can
accommodate a variety of upgrades and contributions. With its exceptional
combination of experimental configuration, technical capabilities, and
potential for transformative discoveries, LBNE promises to be a vital facility
for the field of particle physics worldwide, providing physicists from around
the globe with opportunities to collaborate in a twenty to thirty year program
of exciting science. In this document we provide a comprehensive overview of
LBNE's scientific objectives, its place in the landscape of neutrino physics
worldwide, the technologies it will incorporate and the capabilities it will
possess.


