Commutators and Sobolev spaces

  This paper was withdrawn by arXiv admin because it plagiarizes "Chen, WenGu(PRC-BIAP); Lu, Shan Zhen(PRC-BJN) The commutators of fractional integrals onBesov spaces. Acta Math. Sin. (Engl. Ser.) 20 (2004), no. 3, 405--414."

Experimental study of quantum decoherence using nuclear magnetic  resonance

  Quantum decoherence has been studied using nuclear magnetic resonance(NMR).By choosing one qubit to simulate environment, we examine the decoherencebehavior of two quantum systems: a one qubit system and a two qubit system. Theexperimental results show agreements with the theoretical predictions. Ourexperiment schemes can be generalized to the case that the environment iscomposed of multiple qubits.

Experimental implementation of generalized Grover's algorithm of  multiple marked states and its application

  Generalized Grover's searching algorithm for the case in which there aremultiple marked states is demonstrated on a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)quantum computer. The entangled basis states (EPR states) are synthesized usingthe algorithm.

Implementation of dense coding using the generalized Grover's algorithm

  Dense coding has been implemented using the generalized Grover's algorithmand its inverse operation. Exploiting the superpositions of twoEinstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) states, messages that are possible to betransmitted increase. Our scheme is demonstrated using nuclear magneticresonance (NMR). Experimental results show a good agreement between theory andexperiment.

Evidence for s-wave pairing from measurement on lower critical field in  $MgCNi_3$

  Magnetization measurements in the low field region have been carefullyperformed on a well-shaped cylindrical and an ellipsoidal sample ofsuperconductor $MgCNi_3$. Data from both samples show almost the same results.The lower critical field $H_{c1}$ and the London penetration depth $\lambda$are thus derived. It is found that the result of normalized superfluid density$\lambda^2(0)/\lambda^2(T)$ of $MgCNi_3$ can be well described by BCSprediction with the expectation for an isotropic s-wave superconductivity.

Realization of generalized quantum searching using nuclear magnetic  resonance

  According to the theoretical results, the quantum searching algorithm can begeneralized by replacing the Walsh-Hadamard(W-H) transform by almost anyquantum mechanical operation. We have implemented the generalized algorithmusing nuclear magnetic resonance techniques with a solution of chloroformmolecules. Experimental results show the good agreement between theory andexperiment.

Simulating decoherence behavior of a system in entangled state using  nuclear magnetic resonance

  By choosing H nucleus in Carbon-13 labelled trichloroethylene as one qubitenvironment, and two C nuclei as a two-qubit system, we have simulated quantumdecoherence when the system lies in an entangled state using nuclear magneticresonance (NMR). Decoupling technique is used to trace over the environmentdegrees of freedom. Experimental results show agreements with the theoreticalpredictions. Our experiment scheme can be generalized to the case thatenvironment is composed of multiple qubits.

Synthesizing NMR analogues of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen states using  generalized Grover's algorithm

  By designing a proper unitary operator U, we synthesize NMR analogues ofEinstein-Podolsky-Rosen states (pseudo-EPR states) using generalized Grover'salgorithm on a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum computer. Experimentsalso demonstrate generalized Grover's algorithm for the case in which there aremultiple marked states.

Sensitivity study of anomalous HZZ couplings at future Higgs factory

  We study the sensitivity of constraining the model independent Higgs-Z-Zcoupling under effective theory up to dimension-6 operators at the future Higgsfactory. Utilizing the current conceptual design parameters of the CircularElectron Positron Collider, we give the experimental limits for the modelindependent operators by the total Higgsstrahlung cross section and angulardistribution of Z boson decay in the Higgs factory. Especially, we give verysmall sensitivity limit for the CP violation parameter $\tilde g$, which willbe a clear window to test the Standard Model and look for New Physics signal.

Construction of Unrestricted Rate Parallel Random Input Output Code

  A coding scheme for two-page unrestricted-rate PRIO code that each page mayhave different code rates is proposed. In the second page, the code for eachmessages consists of two complementary codewords with code length n. There area total of 2n-1 codes which are disjoint to guarantees uniquely decodable for2n-1 messages. In the first page, the code for each message consists of allweight-u vectors with their non-zero elements restricted to (2u-1) samepositions, where non-negative integer u is less than or equal to half of codelength. Finding codes to be disjoint in first page is equivalent toconstruction of constant-weight codes, and the numbers of disjoint codes arethe best-known numbers of codewords in constant-weight codes. Our coding schemeis constructive, and the code length is arbitrary.The sum rates of our proposedcodes are higher than those of previous work.

A construction of UD $k$-ary multi-user codes from $(2^m(k-1)+1)$-ary  codes for MAAC

  In this paper, we proposed a construction of a UD $k$-ary $T$-user codingscheme for MAAC. We first give a construction of $k$-ary $T^{f+g}$-user UD codefrom a $k$-ary $T^{f}$-user UD code and a $k^{\pm}$-ary $T^{g}$-user differenceset with its two component sets $\mathcal{D}^{+}$ and $\mathcal{D}^{-}$ {\em apriori}. Based on the $k^{\pm}$-ary $T^{g}$-user difference set constructedfrom a $(2k-1)$-ary UD code, we recursively construct a UD $k$-ary $T$-usercodes with code length of $2^m$ from initial multi-user codes of $k$-ary,$2(k-1)+1$-ary, \dots, $(2^m(k-1)+1)$-ary. Introducing multi-user codes withhiger-ary makes the total rate of generated code $\mathcal{A}$ higher than thatof conventional code.

Tunneling spectroscopy of Na$_{x}$CoO$_2$ and Na$_{x}$CoO$_2$$\cdot$  yH$_2$O

  The single electron tunneling spectroscopy on superconductorNa$_{x}$CoO$_2$$\cdot$ yH$_2$O and its starting compound Na$_{x}$CoO$_2$ hasbeen studied with point-contact method. The spectra of Na$_{x}$CoO$_2$ have twotypes of distinct shapes at different random locations, this is attributed tothe non-uniformly distributed sodium escaped from the inner part of the sample.While all the measured spectra of the superconducting samplesNa$_{x}$CoO$_2$$\cdot$ yH$_2$O have a good spatial reproducibility, and show aremarkable zero bias conductance depression appearing below an onsettemperature which associates very well with the resistance upturn at around 45K. The latter behavior resembles in some way the pseudogap feature inhigh-T$_c$ cuprate uperconductors.

Spin Hall effect in spin-valley coupled monolayer transition-metal  dichalcogenides

  We study both the intrinsic and extrinsic spin Hall effect in spin-valleycoupled monolayers of transition metal dichalcogenides. We find that whereasthe skew-scattering contribution is suppressed by the large band gap, theside-jump contribution is comparable to the intrinsic one with opposite sign inthe presence of scalar and magnetic scattering. Intervalley scattering tends tosuppress the side-jump contribution due to the loss of coherence. By tuning theratio of intra- to intervalley scattering, the spin Hall conductivity shows asign change in hole-doped samples. Multiband effect in other doping regime isconsidered, and it is found that the sign change exists in the heavilyhole-doped regime, but not in the electron-doped regime.

Two dimensional scaling of resistance in flux flow region in  $Tl_2Ba_2CaCu_2O_8$ thin films

  The resistance of $Tl_2Ba_2CaCu_2O_8$ thin films has been measured when theangle between the applied fields and $ab$-plane of the film is changedcontinuously at various temperatures. Under various magnetic fields, theresistance can be well scaled in terms of the c-axis component of the appliedfields at the same temperature in the whole angle range. Meanwhile, we showthat the measurement of resistance in this way is a complementary method todetermine the growth orientation of the anisotropic high-$T_c$ superconductors.

Experimental Synchronization of Independent Entangled Photon Sources

  Realistic linear quantum information processing necessitates the ability tosynchronously generate entangled photon pairs either at the same or at distantlocations. Here, we report the experimental realization of synchronizedgeneration of independent entangled photon pairs. The quality ofsynchronization is confirmed by observing a violation of Bell's inequality with3.2 standard deviations in an entanglement swapping experiment. The techniquesdeveloped in our experiment will be of great importance for future linearoptical realization of quantum repeaters and quantum computation.

Propagation characteristics of complementary split-ring resonators  excited by internal cylindrical wave

  For a complementary split-ring resonators (CSRRs) etched on one screen of twoinfinite and perfectly conducting plates under cylindrical plane waveillumination, the transmission coefficients analysis were performed throughfinite-difference time-domain simulations. For the single slot ring CSRR, twotransmission dips are observed for the direction parallel to aperture atresonance whereas two enhanced transmission for the direction normal to theaperture. For double slot ring CSRR, the transmission coefficients appear moreanisotropic. The results provided considerable insight into the electromagneticresponse of CSRR and would be very helpful for developing new electronicdevices such as filters.

Weighted multilinear Hardy operators and commutators

  In this paper, we introduce a type of weighted multilinear Hardy operatorsand obtain their sharp bounds on the product of Lebesgue spaces and centralMorrey spaces. In addition, we obtain sufficient and necessary conditions ofthe weight functions so that the commutators of the weighted multilinear Hardyoperators (with symbols in central BMO space) are bounded on the product ofcentral Morrey spaces. These results are further used to prove sharp estimatesof some inequalities due to Riemann-Liouville and Weyl.

Construction of Parallel RIO Codes using Coset Coding with Hamming Codes

  Random input/output (RIO) code is a coding scheme that enables reading of onelogical page using a single read threshold in multilevel flash memory. Theconstruction of RIO codes is equivalent to the construction of WOM codes.Parallel RIO (P-RIO) code is an RIO code that encodes all pages in parallel. Inthis paper, we utilize coset coding with Hamming codes in order to constructP-RIO codes. Coset coding is a technique that constructs WOM codes using linearbinary codes. We leverage the information on the data of all pages to encodeeach page. Our constructed codes store more pages than RIO codes constructedvia coset coding.

Gate-Controlled Magnetoresistance of a Paramagnetic Insulator|Platinum  Interface

  We report an electric field-induced in-plane magnetoresistance of anatomically flat paramagnetic insulator|platinum (Pt) interface at lowtemperatures with an ionic liquid gate. Transport experiments as a function ofapplied magnetic field strength and direction obey the spin Hallmagnetoresistance phenomenology with perpendicular magnetic anisotropy. Ourresults establish the utility of ionic gating as an alternative method tocontrol spintronic devices without using ferromagnets.

Z2 invariant protected bound states in topological insulators

  We present an exact solution of a modifed Dirac equation for topologicalinsulator in the presence of a hole or vacancy to demonstrate that vacanciesmay induce bound states in the band gap of topological insulators. They arisedue to the Z_2 classification of time-reversal invariant insulators, thus arealso topologically-protected like the edge states in the quantum spin Halleffect and the surface states in three-dimensional topological insulators.Coexistence of the in-gap bound states and the edge or surface states intopological insulators suggests that imperfections may affect transportproperties of topological insulators via additional bound states near thesystem boundary.

Spin-orbit scattering in quantum diffusion of massive Dirac fermions

  Effect of spin-orbit scattering on quantum diffusive transport oftwo-dimensional massive Dirac fermions is studied by the diagrammatictechnique. The quantum diffusion of massive Dirac fermions can be viewed as asinglet Cooperon in the massless limit and a triplet Cooperon in the large-masslimit. The spin-orbit scattering behaves like random magnetic fields only tothe triplet Cooperon, and suppresses the weak localization of Dirac fermions inthe large-mass regime. This behavior suggests an experiment to detect the weaklocalization of bulk subbands in topological insulator thin films, in which anarrowing of the cusp of the negative magnetoconductivity is expected afterdoping heavy-element impurities. Finally, a detailed comparison between theconventional two-dimensional electrons and Dirac fermions is presented forimpurities of orthogonal, symplectic, and unitary symmetries.

Highly Deformable and Mobile Palladium Nanocrystals as Efficient Carbon  Scavengers

  Fouling of surfaces leads to performance degradation in many energy-intensiveindustrial processes, but the present solutions are either too complicated tobe routinely used or incomplete for eradication. Here we propose anddemonstrate that carbon-containing deposits can be catalytically wiped out inan efficient way by roaming palladium nanoparticles with extreme shapeflexibility at relatively low temperatures. Surprisingly, during their dramaticliquid-like migrations, these particles could still maintain crystallineinterior and conserve their initial crystal orientations through self-surfacediffusion. Moreover, these catalytic particles were even able to becomeregenerated by other roaming particles after occasionally deactivated bysurface coking or multiple-particle sintering. These findings shed light onmetabolically driven, "living" nanocrystals, and also open a new avenue forefficient catalysis.

Multiple Unpinned Dirac Points in Group-Va Single-layers with  Phosphorene Structure

  Emergent Dirac fermion states underlie many intriguing properties ofgraphene, and the search for them constitute one strong motivation to exploretwo-dimensional (2D) allotropes of other elements. Phosphorene, the ultrathinlayers of black phosphorous, has been a subject of intense investigationsrecently, and it was found that other group-Va elements could also form 2Dlayers with similar puckered lattice structure. Here, by a close examination oftheir electronic band structure evolution, we discover two types of Diracfermion states emerging in the low-energy spectrum. One pair of (type-I) Diracpoints is sitting on high-symmetry lines, while two pairs of (type-II) Diracpoints are located at generic $k$-points, with different anisotropicdispersions determined by the reduced symmetries at their locations. Suchfully-unpinned (type-II) 2D Dirac points are discovered for the first time. Inthe absence of spin-orbit coupling, we find that each Dirac node is protectedby the sublattice symmetry from gap opening, which is in turn ensured by anyone of three point group symmetries. The spin-orbit coupling generally gaps theDirac nodes, and for the type-I case, this drives the system into a quantumspin Hall insulator phase. We suggest possible ways to realize the unpinnedDirac points in strained phosphorene.

Artificial gravity field, astrophysical analogues, and topological phase  transitions in strained topological semimetals

  Effective gravity and gauge fields are emergent properties intrinsic forlow-energy quasiparticles in topological semimetals. Here, taking two Diracsemimetals as examples, we demonstrate that applied lattice strain can generatewarped spacetime, with fascinating analogues in astrophysics. Particularly, westudy the possibility of simulating black-hole/white-hole event horizons andgravitational lensing effect. Furthermore, we discover strain-inducedtopological phase transitions, both in the bulk materials and in their thinfilms. Especially in thin films, the transition between the quantum spin Halland the trivial insulating phases can be achieved by a small strain, naturallyleading to the proposition of a novel piezo-topological transistor device.Possible experimental realizations and analogue of Hawking radiation effect arediscussed. Our result bridges multiple disciplines, revealing topologicalsemimetals as a unique table-top platform for exploring interesting phenomenain astrophysics and general relativity; it also suggests realistic materialsand methods to achieve controlled topological phase transitions with greatpotential for device applications.

Tunable ferroelectricity and anisotropic electric transport in monolayer  $β$-GeSe

  Low-dimensional ferroelectricity has attracted tremendous attention due toits huge potential in device applications. Here, based on first-principlescalculations, we predict the existence of spontaneous in-plane electricalpolarization and ferroelectricity in monolayer $\beta$-GeSe, a polymorph ofGeSe with a boat conformation newly synthesized in experiment. The magnitude ofthe polarization is about $0.16$ nC/m, which is comparable to that of monolayerSnTe studied in recent experiment, and the intrinsic Curie temperature isestimated to be above 200 K. Interestingly, owing to its puckered structure,the physical properties of $\beta$-GeSe can be easily controlled by strain. TheCurie temperature can be raised above room temperature by applying a ($\sim1\%$) tensile strain, and the magnitude of polarization can be largelyincreased by strains in either armchair or zigzag directions. Furthermore, wefind that for the case with electron doping, applying strain can readily tunethe anisotropic electric transport with the preferred conducting directionrotated by $90^\circ$, which is connected with a strain-induced Lifshitztransition. The ratio between the effective masses along the two in-planedirections can undergo a dramatic change of two orders of magnitude even by a2% strain. Our result reveals monolayer $\beta$-GeSe as a promising platformfor exploring ferroelectricity in two-dimensions and for nanoscalemechano-electronic device applications.

Pixel and Feature Level Based Domain Adaption for Object Detection in  Autonomous Driving

  Annotating large scale datasets to train modern convolutional neural networksis prohibitively expensive and time-consuming for many real tasks. Onealternative is to train the model on labeled synthetic datasets and apply it inthe real scenes. However, this straightforward method often fails to generalizewell mainly due to the domain bias between the synthetic and real datasets.Many unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) methods are introduced to addressthis problem but most of them only focus on the simple classification task. Inthis paper, we present a novel UDA model to solve the more complex objectdetection problem in the context of autonomous driving. Our model integratesboth pixel level and feature level based transformtions to fulfill the crossdomain detection task and can be further trained end-to-end to pursue betterperformance. We employ objectives of the generative adversarial network and thecycle consistency loss for image translation in the pixel space. To address thepotential semantic inconsistency problem, we propose region proposal basedfeature adversarial training to preserve the semantics of our target objects aswell as further minimize the domain shifts. Extensive experiments are conductedon several different datasets, and the results demonstrate the robustness andsuperiority of our method.

Effective continuous model for surface states and thin films of three  dimensional topological insulators

  Two-dimensional effective continuous models are derived for the surfacestates and thin films of the three-dimensional topological insulator (3DTI).Starting from an effective model for 3DTI based on the first principlescalculation [Zhang \emph{et al}, Nat. Phys. 5, 438 (2009)], we presentsolutions for both the surface states in a semi-infinite boundary condition andin the thin film with finite thickness. An effective continuous model wasderived for surface states and the thin film 3DTI. The coupling betweenopposite topological surfaces and structure inversion asymmetry (SIA) give riseto gapped Dirac hyperbolas with Rashba-like splittings in energy spectrum.Besides, the SIA leads to asymmetric distributions of wavefunctions along thefilm growth direction, making some branches in the energy spectra much harderthan others to be probed by light. These features agree well with the recentangle-resolved photoemission spectra of Bi$_{2}$Se $_{3}$ films grown on SiCsubstrate [Zhang et al, arXiv: 0911.3706]. More importantly, we use theeffective model to fit the experimental data and determine the modelparameters. The result indicates that the thin film Bi$_{2}$Se$_{3}$ lies inquantum spin Hall region based on the calculation of the Chern number and the$Z_{2}$ invariant. In addition, strong SIA always intends to destroy thequantum spin Hall state.

Broad-line AGNs with Candidate Intermediate-mass Black holes in the  Sloan Digital Sky Survey

  We have conducted a systematic search of AGNs with IMBHs from the SDSS DR4.As results we found 245 candidates of broad-line AGN with M_{BH}<10^6 \Msunestimated from the luminosity and width of the broad Halpha component. Comparedto the pioneer Greene & Ho (2004) sample of 19 IMBH AGNs, our sample hasimproved in covering a larger range of the Eddington ratio, as well as blackhole mass and redshift, taking the advantage of our AGN-galaxy spectraldecomposition algorithm. Among these, thirty-six have L_{bol}/L_{Edd} < 0.1,hinting that a significant fraction of IMBHs might exist with weak or nonuclear activity.

Bulk Evidence for s-Wave Pairing Symmetry in the n-Type Infinite-Layer  Cuprate $Sr_{0.9}La_{0.1}CuO_{2}$

  Low temperature specific heat of the electron-doped (n-type) infinite-layercuprate $Sr_{0.9}La_{0.1}CuO_{2}$ has been measured. The quasiparticle densityof states (DOS) in the mixed state is found to be consistent with the featureof the s-wave pairing symmetry, agreeing very well with the earlier tunnellingmeasurement, but being contrary to the d-wave symmetry well confirmed for thehole-doped (p-type) cuprates. Our results indicate that the electronic DOS aremainly contributed by the vortex cores in the present sample being contrast tothe p-type cuprates in which the vortex cores are abnormal and contribute verylimited low energy DOS as evidenced by many means.

Effect of Native Defects on Optical Properties of InxGa1-xN Alloys

  The energy position of the optical absorption edge and the free carrierpopulations in InxGa1-xN ternary alloys can be controlled using high energy4He+ irradiation. The blue shift of the absorption edge after irradiation inIn-rich material (x > 0.34) is attributed to the band-filling effect(Burstein-Moss shift) due to the native donors introduced by the irradiation.In Ga-rich material, optical absorption measurements show that theirradiation-introduced native defects are inside the bandgap, where they areincorporated as acceptors. The observed irradiation-produced changes in theoptical absorption edge and the carrier populations in InxGa1-xN are inexcellent agreement with the predictions of the amphoteric defect model.

Prospect of a very long baseline neutrino oscillation experiment: HIPA  to Beijing

  We discuss the prospects of a very long baseline neutrino oscillationexperiment from HIPA to Beijing. The current understanding of neutrinooscillations, both theoretically and experimentally, are summarized. The figureof merits for interested physics measurements are defined and compared atdifferent distances: 300 km, 700 km, 2100 km and 3000 km. We conclude that abaseline more than 2100 km is optimal. A large water cerenkov calorimeter wasproposed and its performance is satisfactory from a Monte Carlo simulationstudy. Such a large detector can do many other measurements on cosmic-raysphysics and astrophysics.

Micro Embossing of Ceramic Green Substrates for Micro Devices

  Multilayered ceramic substrates with embedded micro patterns are becomingincreasingly important, for example, in harsh environment electronics andmicrofluidic devices. Fabrication of these embedded micro patterns, such asmicro channels, cavities and vias, is a challenge. This study focuses on theprocess of patterning micro features on ceramic green substrates using microembossing. A ceramic green tape that possessed near-zero shrinkage in the x-yplane was used, six layers of which were laminated as the embossing substrate.The process parameters that impact on the pattern fidelity were investigatedand optimized in this study. Micro features with line-width as small as severalmicrometers were formed on the ceramic green substrates. The dynamicthermo-mechanical analysis indicated that extending the holding time at certaintemperature range would harden the green substrates with little effect onimproving the embossing fidelity. Ceramic substrates with embossed micropatterns were obtain d after co-firing. The embedded micro channels were alsoobtained by laminating the green tapes on the embossed substrates.

Massive Dirac fermions and spin physics in an ultrathin film of  topological insulator

  We study transport and optical properties of the surface states which lie inthe bulk energy gap of a thin-film topological insulator. When the filmthickness is comparable with the surface state decay length into the bulk, thetunneling between the top and bottom surfaces opens an energy gap and form twodegenerate massive Dirac hyperbolas. Spin dependent physics emerges in thesurface bands which are vastly different from the bulk behavior. These includethe surface spin Hall effects, spin dependent orbital magnetic moment, and spindependent optical transition selection rule which allows optical spininjection. We show a topological quantum phase transition where the Chernnumber of the surface bands changes when varying the thickness of the thinfilm.

Electronic and crystalline structures of zero band-gap PdLuBi thin films  grown epitaxially on MgO(100)

  Thin films of the proposed topological insulator PdLuBi - a Heusler compoundwith the C1b structure - were prepared on Ta-Mo-buffered MgO(100) substrates byco-sputtering from PdBi2 and Lu targets. Epitaxial growth of high-qualityPdLuBi films was confirmed by X-ray spectrometry and reflection high-energyelectron diffraction. The root-mean-square roughness of the films was as low as1.45 nm, although the films were deposited at high temperature. The filmcomposition is close to the ideal stoichiometric ratio. The valence bandspectra of the PdLuBi films, observed by hard X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy,correspond perfectly to the ab-initio-calculated density of states.

Surface and Edge States in Topological Semi-metals

  We study the topologically non-trivial semi-metals by means of the 6-bandKane model. Existence of surface states is explicitly demonstrated bycalculating the LDOS on the material surface. In the strain free condition,surface states are divided into two parts in the energy spectrum, one part isin the direct gap, the other part including the crossing point of surface stateDirac cone is submerged in the valence band. We also show how uni-axial straininduces an insulating band gap and raises the crossing point from the valenceband into the band gap, making the system a true topological insulator. Wepredict existence of helical edge states and spin Hall effect in the thin filmtopological semi-metals, which could be tested with future experiment. Disorderis found to significantly enhance the spin Hall effect in the valence band ofthe thin films.

Topological insulator and the Dirac equation

  We present a general description of topological insulators from the point ofview of Dirac equations. The Z_{2} index for the Dirac equation is always zero,and thus the Dirac equation is topologically trivial. After the quadratic Bterm in momentum is introduced to correct the mass term m or the band gap ofthe Dirac equation, the Z_{2} index is modified as 1 for mB>0 and 0 for mB<0.For a fixed B there exists a topological quantum phase transition from atopologically trivial system to a non-trivial one system when the sign of massm changes. A series of solutions near the boundary in the modified Diracequation are obtained, which is characteristic of topological insulator. Fromthe solutions of the bound states and the Z_{2} index we establish a relationbetween the Dirac equation and topological insulators.

Strain effects on electronic and optic properties of monolayer C$_2$N  holey two-dimensional crystals

  A new two-dimensional material, the C$_2$N holey 2D (C$_2$N-$h$2D) crystal,has recently been synthesized. Here we investigate the strain effects on theproperties of this new material by first-principles calculations. We show thatthe material is quite soft with a small stiffness constant and can sustainlarge strains $\geq 12\%$. It remains a direct gap semiconductor under strainand the bandgap size can be tuned in a wide range as large as 1 eV.Interestingly, for biaxial strain, a band crossing effect occurs at the valenceband maximum close to a 8\% strain, leading to a dramatic increase of the holeeffective mass. Strong optical absorption can be achieved by strain tuning withabsorption coefficient $\sim10^6$ cm$^{-1}$ covering a wide spectrum. Ourfindings suggest the great potential of strain-engineered C$_2$N-$h$2D inelectronic and optoelectronic device applications.

Spin Selective Purcell Effect in a Quantum Dot Microcavity System

  We demonstrate the selective coupling of a single quantum dot exciton spinstate with the cavity mode in a quantum dot-micropillar cavity system. Bytuning an external magnetic field, the Zeeman splitted exciton spin statescoupled differently with the cavity due to field manipulated energy detuning.We found a 26 times increase in the emission intensity of spin-up exciton statewith respect to spin-down exciton state at resonance due to Purcell effect,which gives rise to the selective enhancement of light emission with thecircular polarization degree up to 93%. A four-level rate equation model isdeveloped and quantitatively agrees well with our experimental data. Ourresults pave the way for the realization of future quantum light sources andthe quantum information processing applications.

Electronic specific heat in BaFe$_{2-x}$Ni$_x$As$_2$

  We have systematically studied the low-temperature specific heat of theBaFe$_{2-x}$Ni$_x$As$_2$ single crystals covering the whole superconductingdome. Using the nonsuperconducting heavily overdoped x = 0.3 sample as areference for the phonon contribution to the specific heat, we find that thenormal-state electronic specific heats in the superconducting samples may havea nonlinear temperature dependence, which challenges previous results in theelectron-doped Ba-122 iron-based superconductors. A model based on the presenceof ferromagnetic spin fluctuations may explain the data between x = 0.1 and x =0.15, suggesting the important role of Fermi-surface topology in understandingthe normal-state electronic states.

Database-Backed Web Applications in the Wild: How Well Do They Work?

  Most modern database-backed web applications are built upon Object RelationalMapping (ORM) frameworks. While ORM frameworks ease application development byabstracting persistent data as objects, such convenience often comes with aperformance cost. In this paper, we present CADO, a tool that analyzes theapplication logic and its interaction with databases using the Ruby on RailsORM framework. CADO includes a static program analyzer, a profiler and asynthetic data generator to extract and understand application's performancecharacteristics. We used CADO to analyze the performance problems of 27real-world open-source Rails applications, covering domains such as onlineforums, e-commerce, project management, blogs, etc. Based on the results, weuncovered a number of issues that lead to sub-optimal application performance,ranging from issuing queries, how result sets are used, and physical design. Wesuggest possible remedies for each issue, and highlight new researchopportunities that arise from them.

Strong coupling between Tamm plasmon polariton and two dimensional  semiconductor excitons

  Two dimensional (2D) semiconductor materials of transition-metaldichalcogenides (TMDCs) manifest many peculiar physical phenomena in thelight-matter interaction. Due to their ultrathin property, strong interactionwith light and the robust excitons at room temperature, they provide a perfectplatform for studying the physics of strong coupling in low dimension and atroom temperature. Here we report the strong coupling between 2D semiconductorexcitons and Tamm plasmon polaritons (TPPs). We observe a Rabi splitting ofabout 54 meV at room temperature by measuring the angle resolved differentialreflectivity spectra and simulate the theoretical results by using the transfermatrix method. Our results will promote the realization of the TPP basedultrathin polariton devices at room temperature.

Self-paced Learning for Weakly Supervised Evidence Discovery in  Multimedia Event Search

  Multimedia event detection has been receiving increasing attention in recentyears. Besides recognizing an event, the discovery of evidences (which isrefered to as "recounting") is also crucial for user to better understand thesearching result. Due to the difficulty of evidence annotation, only limitedsupervision of event labels are available for training a recounting model. Todeal with the problem, we propose a weakly supervised evidence discovery methodbased on self-paced learning framework, which follows a learning process fromeasy "evidences" to gradually more complex ones, and simultaneously exploitmore and more positive evidence samples from numerous weakly annotated videosegments. Moreover, to evaluate our method quantitatively, we also propose twometrics, \textit{PctOverlap} and \textit{F1-score}, for measuring theperformance of evidence localization specifically. The experiments areconducted on a subset of TRECVID MED dataset and demonstrate the promisingresults obtained by our method.

Lower Bounds on the Number of Writing Operations by ILIFC with Inversion  Cells

  Index-less Indexed Flash Code (ILIFC) is a coding scheme for flash memories,in which one bit of a data sequence is stored in a slice consisting of severalcells but the index of the bit is stored implicitly. Although several modifiedILIFC schemes have been proposed, in this research we consider an ILIFC withinversion cells(I-ILIFC). The I-ILIFC reduces the total number of cell levelchanges at each writing request. Computer simulation is used to show that theI-ILIFC improves the average performance of the ILIFC in many cases. This paperpresents our derivation of the lower bounds on the number of writing operationsby I-ILIFC and shows that the worst-case performance of the I-ILIFC is betterthan that of the ILIFC if the code length is sufficiently large. Additionally,we consider the tight lower bounds thereon. The results show that the thresholdof the code length that determines whether the I-ILIFC improves the worst-caseperformance of the ILIFC is smaller than that in the first lower bounds.

Herding boosts too-connected-to-fail risk in stock market of China

  The crowd panic and its contagion play non-negligible roles at the time ofthe stock crash, especially for China where inexperienced investors dominatethe market. However, existing models rarely consider investors in networkingstocks and accordingly miss the exact knowledge of how panic contagion leads toabrupt crash. In this paper, by networking stocks of sharing common mutualfunds, a new methodology of investigating the market crash is presented. It issurprisingly revealed that the herding, which origins in the mimic of seekingfor high diversity across investment strategies to lower individual risk, willproduce too-connected-to-fail stocks and reluctantly boosts the systemic riskof the entire market. Though too-connected stocks might be relatively stableduring the crisis, they are so influential that a small downward fluctuationwill cascade to trigger severe drops of massive successor stocks, implying thattheir falls might be unexpectedly amplified by the collective panic and resultin the market crash. Our findings suggest that the whole picture of portfoliostrategy has to be carefully supervised to reshape the stock network.

Understanding and Auto-Adjusting Performance-Related Configurations

  Modern software systems are often equipped with hundreds to thousands ofconfiguration options, many of which greatly affect performance. Unfortunately,properly setting these configurations is challenging for developers due to thecomplex and dynamic nature of system workload and environment. In this paper,we first conduct an empirical study to understand performance-relatedconfigurations and the challenges of setting them in the real-world. Guided byour study, we design a systematic and general control-theoretic framework,SmartConf, to automatically set and dynamically adjust performance-relatedconfigurations to meet required operating constraints while optimizing otherperformance metrics. Evaluation shows that SmartConf is effective in solvingreal-world configuration problems, often providing better performance than eventhe best static configuration developers can choose under existingconfiguration systems.

Variational Recurrent Neural Machine Translation

  Partially inspired by successful applications of variational recurrent neuralnetworks, we propose a novel variational recurrent neural machine translation(VRNMT) model in this paper. Different from the variational NMT, VRNMTintroduces a series of latent random variables to model the translationprocedure of a sentence in a generative way, instead of a single latentvariable. Specifically, the latent random variables are included into thehidden states of the NMT decoder with elements from the variationalautoencoder. In this way, these variables are recurrently generated, whichenables them to further capture strong and complex dependencies among theoutput translations at different timesteps. In order to deal with thechallenges in performing efficient posterior inference and large-scale trainingduring the incorporation of latent variables, we build a neural posteriorapproximator, and equip it with a reparameterization technique to estimate thevariational lower bound. Experiments on Chinese-English and English-Germantranslation tasks demonstrate that the proposed model achieves significantimprovements over both the conventional and variational NMT models.

Inducing ferromagnetism and Kondo effect in platinum by paramagnetic  ionic gating

  Electrically controllable magnetism, which requires the field-effectmanipulation of both charge and spin degrees of freedom, has attracted growinginterests since the emergence of spintronics. In this work, we report thereversible electrical switching of ferromagnetic (FM) states in platinum (Pt)thin films by introducing paramagnetic ionic liquid (PIL) as the gating media.The paramagnetic ionic gating controls the movement of ions with magneticmoments, which induces itinerant ferromagnetism on the surface of Pt films withlarge coercivity and perpendicular anisotropy mimicking the idealtwo-dimensional Ising-type FM state. The electrical transport of the induced FMstate shows Kondo effect at low temperature suggesting spatially separatedcoexistence of Kondo scattering beneath the FM interface. The tunable FM stateindicates that paramagnetic ionic gating could serve as a versatile method toinduce rich transport phenomena combining field effect and magnetism atPIL-gated interfaces.

Multi-scale prediction for robust hand detection and classification

  In this paper, we present a multi-scale Fully Convolutional Networks(MSP-RFCN) to robustly detect and classify human hands under variouschallenging conditions. In our approach, the input image is passed through theproposed network to generate score maps, based on multi-scale predictions. Thenetwork has been specifically designed to deal with small objects. It uses anarchitecture based on region proposals generated at multiple scales. Our methodis evaluated on challenging hand datasets, namely the Vision for IntelligentVehicles and Applications (VIVA) Challenge and the Oxford hand dataset. It iscompared against recent hand detection algorithms. The experimental resultsdemonstrate that our proposed method achieves state-of-the-art detection forhands of various sizes.

Optical Stark Effect of a Single Defect on TiO2(110) Surface

  Probing optical Stark effect at the single-molecule or atomic scale iscrucial for understanding many photo-induced chemical and physical processes onsurfaces. Here we report a study about optical Stark effect of single atomicdefects on TiO2(110) surface with photo-assisted scanning tunnelingspectroscopy. When a laser is coupled into the tunneling junction, the mid-gapstate of OH-O2 defects changes remarkably in the differential conductancespectra. As laser power gradually increases, the energy of the mid-gap stateshifts away from the Fermi level with increase in intensity and broadening ofpeak width. The observation can be explained as optical Stark effect with theAutler-Townes formula. This large optical Stark effect is due to thetip-enhancement and the strong dipole moment in the transient charged stateduring electron tunneling. Our study provides new aspects in exploringelectron-photon interactions at the microscopic scale.

Energy Efficient Massive MIMO through Distributed Precoder Design

  This paper presents an energy-efficient downlink precoding scheme with theobjective of maximizing system energy efficiency in a multi-cell massive MIMOsystem. The proposed precoding design jointly considers the issues of powercontrol, interference management, antenna switching and user throughput in acluster of base stations (BS). We demonstrate that the precoding design can beformulated into a general sparsity-inducing non-convex problem, which isNP-hard. We thus apply a smooth approximation of zero-norm in the antenna powermanagement to enable the application of the gradient-based algorithms. Thenon-convexity of the problem may also cause slow convergence or even divergenceif some classical gradient algorithms are directly applied. We thus develop anefficient alternative algorithm combining features from augmented multiplier(AM) and quadratic programming (QP) to guarantee the convergence. Wetheoretically prove the convergence conditions for our algorithm both locallyand globally under realistic assumptions. Our proposed algorithms furtherfacilitate a distributed implementation that reduces backhaul overhead byoffloading data-intensive steps to local computation at each BS. Numericalresults confirm that our methods indeed achieve higher energy efficiency withsuperior convergence rate, compared to some well-known existing methods.

