Personalized Emphasis Framing for Persuasive Message Generation

  In this paper, we present a study on personalized emphasis framing which can
be used to tailor the content of a message to enhance its appeal to different
individuals. With this framework, we directly model content selection decisions
based on a set of psychologically-motivated domain-independent personal traits
including personality (e.g., extraversion and conscientiousness) and basic
human values (e.g., self-transcendence and hedonism). We also demonstrate how
the analysis results can be used in automated personalized content selection
for persuasive message generation.


Automatically Infer Human Traits and Behavior from Social Media Data

  Given the complexity of human minds and their behavioral flexibility, it
requires sophisticated data analysis to sift through a large amount of human
behavioral evidence to model human minds and to predict human behavior. People
currently spend a significant amount of time on social media such as Twitter
and Facebook. Thus many aspects of their lives and behaviors have been
digitally captured and continuously archived on these platforms. This makes
social media a great source of large, rich and diverse human behavioral
evidence. In this paper, we survey the recent work on applying machine learning
to infer human traits and behavior from social media data. We will also point
out several future research directions.


An Intersectional Definition of Fairness

  We introduce a measure of fairness for algorithms and data with regard to
multiple protected attributes. Our proposed definition, differential fairness,
is informed by the framework of intersectionality, which analyzes how
interlocking systems of power and oppression affect individuals along
overlapping dimensions including race, gender, sexual orientation, class, and
disability. We show that our criterion behaves sensibly for any subset of the
set of protected attributes, and we illustrate links to differential privacy. A
case study on census data demonstrates the utility of our approach.


Empirically Evaluating an Adaptable Spoken Dialogue System

  Recent technological advances have made it possible to build real-time,
interactive spoken dialogue systems for a wide variety of applications.
However, when users do not respect the limitations of such systems, performance
typically degrades. Although users differ with respect to their knowledge of
system limitations, and although different dialogue strategies make system
limitations more apparent to users, most current systems do not try to improve
performance by adapting dialogue behavior to individual users. This paper
presents an empirical evaluation of TOOT, an adaptable spoken dialogue system
for retrieving train schedules on the web. We conduct an experiment in which 20
users carry out 4 tasks with both adaptable and non-adaptable versions of TOOT,
resulting in a corpus of 80 dialogues. The values for a wide range of
evaluation measures are then extracted from this corpus. Our results show that
adaptable TOOT generally outperforms non-adaptable TOOT, and that the utility
of adaptation depends on TOOT's initial dialogue strategies.


An Uncertainty-Aware Approach for Exploratory Microblog Retrieval

  Although there has been a great deal of interest in analyzing customer
opinions and breaking news in microblogs, progress has been hampered by the
lack of an effective mechanism to discover and retrieve data of interest from
microblogs. To address this problem, we have developed an uncertainty-aware
visual analytics approach to retrieve salient posts, users, and hashtags. We
extend an existing ranking technique to compute a multifaceted retrieval
result: the mutual reinforcement rank of a graph node, the uncertainty of each
rank, and the propagation of uncertainty among different graph nodes. To
illustrate the three facets, we have also designed a composite visualization
with three visual components: a graph visualization, an uncertainty glyph, and
a flow map. The graph visualization with glyphs, the flow map, and the
uncertainty analysis together enable analysts to effectively find the most
uncertain results and interactively refine them. We have applied our approach
to several Twitter datasets. Qualitative evaluation and two real-world case
studies demonstrate the promise of our approach for retrieving high-quality
microblog data.


LDAExplore: Visualizing Topic Models Generated Using Latent Dirichlet
  Allocation

  We present LDAExplore, a tool to visualize topic distributions in a given
document corpus that are generated using Topic Modeling methods. Latent
Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) is one of the basic methods that is predominantly
used to generate topics. One of the problems with methods like LDA is that
users who apply them may not understand the topics that are generated. Also,
users may find it difficult to search correlated topics and correlated
documents. LDAExplore, tries to alleviate these problems by visualizing topic
and word distributions generated from the document corpus and allowing the user
to interact with them. The system is designed for users, who have minimal
knowledge of LDA or Topic Modelling methods. To evaluate our design, we run a
pilot study which uses the abstracts of 322 Information Visualization papers,
where every abstract is considered a document. The topics generated are then
explored by users. The results show that users are able to find correlated
documents and group them based on topics that are similar.


\$1 Today or \$2 Tomorrow? The Answer is in Your Facebook Likes

  In economics and psychology, delay discounting is often used to characterize
how individuals choose between a smaller immediate reward and a larger delayed
reward. People with higher delay discounting rate (DDR) often choose smaller
but more immediate rewards (a "today person"). In contrast, people with a lower
discounting rate often choose a larger future rewards (a "tomorrow person").
Since the ability to modulate the desire of immediate gratification for long
term rewards plays an important role in our decision-making, the lower
discounting rate often predicts better social, academic and health outcomes. In
contrast, the higher discounting rate is often associated with problematic
behaviors such as alcohol/drug abuse, pathological gambling and credit card
default. Thus, research on understanding and moderating delay discounting has
the potential to produce substantial societal benefits.


Social Media-based Substance Use Prediction

  In this paper, we demonstrate how the state-of-the-art machine learning and
text mining techniques can be used to build effective social media-based
substance use detection systems. Since a substance use ground truth is
difficult to obtain on a large scale, to maximize system performance, we
explore different feature learning methods to take advantage of a large amount
of unsupervised social media data. We also demonstrate the benefit of using
multi-view unsupervised feature learning to combine heterogeneous user
information such as Facebook `"likes" and "status updates" to enhance system
performance. Based on our evaluation, our best models achieved 86% AUC for
predicting tobacco use, 81% for alcohol use and 84% for drug use, all of which
significantly outperformed existing methods. Our investigation has also
uncovered interesting relations between a user's social media behavior (e.g.,
word usage) and substance use.


Learning Domain-Specific Word Embeddings from Sparse Cybersecurity Texts

  Word embedding is a Natural Language Processing (NLP) technique that
automatically maps words from a vocabulary to vectors of real numbers in an
embedding space. It has been widely used in recent years to boost the
performance of a vari-ety of NLP tasks such as Named Entity Recognition,
Syntac-tic Parsing and Sentiment Analysis. Classic word embedding methods such
as Word2Vec and GloVe work well when they are given a large text corpus. When
the input texts are sparse as in many specialized domains (e.g.,
cybersecurity), these methods often fail to produce high-quality vectors. In
this pa-per, we describe a novel method to train domain-specificword embeddings
from sparse texts. In addition to domain texts, our method also leverages
diverse types of domain knowledge such as domain vocabulary and semantic
relations. Specifi-cally, we first propose a general framework to encode
diverse types of domain knowledge as text annotations. Then we de-velop a novel
Word Annotation Embedding (WAE) algorithm to incorporate diverse types of text
annotations in word em-bedding. We have evaluated our method on two
cybersecurity text corpora: a malware description corpus and a Common
Vulnerability and Exposure (CVE) corpus. Our evaluation re-sults have
demonstrated the effectiveness of our method in learning domain-specific word
embeddings.


Bayesian Modeling of Intersectional Fairness: The Variance of Bias

  Intersectionality is a framework that analyzes how interlocking systems of
power and oppression affect individuals along overlapping dimensions including
race, gender, sexual orientation, class, and disability. Intersectionality
theory therefore implies it is important that fairness in artificial
intelligence systems be protected with regard to multi-dimensional protected
attributes. However, the measurement of fairness becomes statistically
challenging in the multi-dimensional setting due to data sparsity, which
increases rapidly in the number of dimensions, and in the values per dimension.
We present a Bayesian probabilistic modeling approach for the reliable,
data-efficient estimation of fairness with multi-dimensional protected
attributes, which we apply to novel intersectional fairness metrics.
Experimental results on census data and the COMPAS criminal justice recidivism
dataset demonstrate the utility of our methodology, and show that Bayesian
methods are valuable for the modeling and measurement of fairness in an
intersectional context.


