A Scalable CUR Matrix Decomposition Algorithm: Lower Time Complexity and
  Tighter Bound

  The CUR matrix decomposition is an important extension of Nystr\"{o}m
approximation to a general matrix. It approximates any data matrix in terms of
a small number of its columns and rows. In this paper we propose a novel
randomized CUR algorithm with an expected relative-error bound. The proposed
algorithm has the advantages over the existing relative-error CUR algorithms
that it possesses tighter theoretical bound and lower time complexity, and that
it can avoid maintaining the whole data matrix in main memory. Finally,
experiments on several real-world datasets demonstrate significant improvement
over the existing relative-error algorithms.


Adjusting Leverage Scores by Row Weighting: A Practical Approach to
  Coherent Matrix Completion

  Low-rank matrix completion is an important problem with extensive real-world
applications. When observations are uniformly sampled from the underlying
matrix entries, existing methods all require the matrix to be incoherent. This
paper provides the first working method for coherent matrix completion under
the standard uniform sampling model. Our approach is based on the weighted
nuclear norm minimization idea proposed in several recent work, and our key
contribution is a practical method to compute the weighting matrices so that
the leverage scores become more uniform after weighting. Under suitable
conditions, we are able to derive theoretical results, showing the
effectiveness of our approach. Experiments on synthetic data show that our
approach recovers highly coherent matrices with high precision, whereas the
standard unweighted method fails even on noise-free data.


A Practical Guide to Randomized Matrix Computations with MATLAB
  Implementations

  Matrix operations such as matrix inversion, eigenvalue decomposition,
singular value decomposition are ubiquitous in real-world applications.
Unfortunately, many of these matrix operations so time and memory expensive
that they are prohibitive when the scale of data is large. In real-world
applications, since the data themselves are noisy, machine-precision matrix
operations are not necessary at all, and one can sacrifice a reasonable amount
of accuracy for computational efficiency.
  In recent years, a bunch of randomized algorithms have been devised to make
matrix computations more scalable. Mahoney (2011) and Woodruff (2014) have
written excellent but very technical reviews of the randomized algorithms.
Differently, the focus of this manuscript is on intuition, algorithm
derivation, and implementation. This manuscript should be accessible to people
with knowledge in elementary matrix algebra but unfamiliar with randomized
matrix computations. The algorithms introduced in this manuscript are all
summarized in a user-friendly way, and they can be implemented in lines of
MATLAB code. The readers can easily follow the implementations even if they do
not understand the maths and algorithms.


Sharpened Error Bounds for Random Sampling Based $\ell_2$ Regression

  Given a data matrix $X \in R^{n\times d}$ and a response vector $y \in
R^{n}$, suppose $n>d$, it costs $O(n d^2)$ time and $O(n d)$ space to solve the
least squares regression (LSR) problem. When $n$ and $d$ are both large,
exactly solving the LSR problem is very expensive. When $n \gg d$, one feasible
approach to speeding up LSR is to randomly embed $y$ and all columns of $X$
into a smaller subspace $R^c$; the induced LSR problem has the same number of
columns but much fewer number of rows, and it can be solved in $O(c d^2)$ time
and $O(c d)$ space.
  We discuss in this paper two random sampling based methods for solving LSR
more efficiently. Previous work showed that the leverage scores based sampling
based LSR achieves $1+\epsilon$ accuracy when $c \geq O(d \epsilon^{-2} \log
d)$. In this paper we sharpen this error bound, showing that $c = O(d \log d +
d \epsilon^{-1})$ is enough for achieving $1+\epsilon$ accuracy. We also show
that when $c \geq O(\mu d \epsilon^{-2} \log d)$, the uniform sampling based
LSR attains a $2+\epsilon$ bound with positive probability.


Improved Analyses of the Randomized Power Method and Block Lanczos
  Method

  The power method and block Lanczos method are popular numerical algorithms
for computing the truncated singular value decomposition (SVD) and eigenvalue
decomposition problems. Especially in the literature of randomized numerical
linear algebra, the power method is widely applied to improve the quality of
randomized sketching, and relative-error bounds have been well established.
Recently, Musco & Musco (2015) proposed a block Krylov subspace method that
fully exploits the intermediate results of the power iteration to accelerate
convergence. They showed spectral gap-independent bounds which are stronger
than the power method by order-of-magnitude. This paper offers novel error
analysis techniques and significantly improves the bounds of both the
randomized power method and the block Lanczos method. This paper also
establishes the first gap-independent bound for the warm-start block Lanczos
method.


$Q|SI\rangle$: A Quantum Programming Environment

  This paper describes a quantum programming environment, named $Q|SI\rangle$.
It is a platform embedded in the .Net language that supports quantum
programming using a quantum extension of the $\mathbf{while}$-language. The
framework of the platform includes a compiler of the quantum
$\mathbf{while}$-language and a suite of tools for simulating quantum
computation, optimizing quantum circuits, and analyzing and verifying quantum
programs. Throughout the paper, using $Q|SI\rangle$ to simulate quantum
behaviors on classical platforms with a combination of components is
demonstrated. The scalable framework allows the user to program customized
functions on the platform. The compiler works as the core of $Q|SI\rangle$
bridging the gap from quantum hardware to quantum software. The built-in
decomposition algorithms enable the universal quantum computation on the
present quantum hardware.


Improving CUR Matrix Decomposition and the Nyström Approximation via
  Adaptive Sampling

  The CUR matrix decomposition and the Nystr\"{o}m approximation are two
important low-rank matrix approximation techniques. The Nystr\"{o}m method
approximates a symmetric positive semidefinite matrix in terms of a small
number of its columns, while CUR approximates an arbitrary data matrix by a
small number of its columns and rows. Thus, CUR decomposition can be regarded
as an extension of the Nystr\"{o}m approximation.
  In this paper we establish a more general error bound for the adaptive
column/row sampling algorithm, based on which we propose more accurate CUR and
Nystr\"{o}m algorithms with expected relative-error bounds. The proposed CUR
and Nystr\"{o}m algorithms also have low time complexity and can avoid
maintaining the whole data matrix in RAM. In addition, we give theoretical
analysis for the lower error bounds of the standard Nystr\"{o}m method and the
ensemble Nystr\"{o}m method. The main theoretical results established in this
paper are novel, and our analysis makes no special assumption on the data
matrices.


Efficient Algorithms and Error Analysis for the Modified Nystrom Method

  Many kernel methods suffer from high time and space complexities and are thus
prohibitive in big-data applications. To tackle the computational challenge,
the Nystr\"om method has been extensively used to reduce time and space
complexities by sacrificing some accuracy. The Nystr\"om method speedups
computation by constructing an approximation of the kernel matrix using only a
few columns of the matrix. Recently, a variant of the Nystr\"om method called
the modified Nystr\"om method has demonstrated significant improvement over the
standard Nystr\"om method in approximation accuracy, both theoretically and
empirically.
  In this paper, we propose two algorithms that make the modified Nystr\"om
method practical. First, we devise a simple column selection algorithm with a
provable error bound. Our algorithm is more efficient and easier to implement
than and nearly as accurate as the state-of-the-art algorithm. Second, with the
selected columns at hand, we propose an algorithm that computes the
approximation in lower time complexity than the approach in the previous work.
Furthermore, we prove that the modified Nystr\"om method is exact under certain
conditions, and we establish a lower error bound for the modified Nystr\"om
method.


SPSD Matrix Approximation vis Column Selection: Theories, Algorithms,
  and Extensions

  Symmetric positive semidefinite (SPSD) matrix approximation is an important
problem with applications in kernel methods. However, existing SPSD matrix
approximation methods such as the Nystr\"om method only have weak error bounds.
In this paper we conduct in-depth studies of an SPSD matrix approximation model
and establish strong relative-error bounds. We call it the prototype model for
it has more efficient and effective extensions, and some of its extensions have
high scalability. Though the prototype model itself is not suitable for
large-scale data, it is still useful to study its properties, on which the
analysis of its extensions relies.
  This paper offers novel theoretical analysis, efficient algorithms, and a
highly accurate extension. First, we establish a lower error bound for the
prototype model and improve the error bound of an existing column selection
algorithm to match the lower bound. In this way, we obtain the first optimal
column selection algorithm for the prototype model. We also prove that the
prototype model is exact under certain conditions. Second, we develop a simple
column selection algorithm with a provable error bound. Third, we propose a
so-called spectral shifting model to make the approximation more accurate when
the eigenvalues of the matrix decay slowly, and the improvement is
theoretically quantified. The spectral shifting method can also be applied to
improve other SPSD matrix approximation models.


Towards More Efficient SPSD Matrix Approximation and CUR Matrix
  Decomposition

  Symmetric positive semi-definite (SPSD) matrix approximation methods have
been extensively used to speed up large-scale eigenvalue computation and kernel
learning methods. The standard sketch based method, which we call the prototype
model, produces relatively accurate approximations, but is inefficient on large
square matrices. The Nystr\"om method is highly efficient, but can only achieve
low accuracy. In this paper we propose a novel model that we call the {\it fast
SPSD matrix approximation model}. The fast model is nearly as efficient as the
Nystr\"om method and as accurate as the prototype model. We show that the fast
model can potentially solve eigenvalue problems and kernel learning problems in
linear time with respect to the matrix size $n$ to achieve $1+\epsilon$
relative-error, whereas both the prototype model and the Nystr\"om method cost
at least quadratic time to attain comparable error bound. Empirical comparisons
among the prototype model, the Nystr\"om method, and our fast model demonstrate
the superiority of the fast model. We also contribute new understandings of the
Nystr\"om method. The Nystr\"om method is a special instance of our fast model
and is approximation to the prototype model. Our technique can be
straightforwardly applied to make the CUR matrix decomposition more efficiently
computed without much affecting the accuracy.


A Bootstrap Method for Error Estimation in Randomized Matrix
  Multiplication

  In recent years, randomized methods for numerical linear algebra have
received growing interest as a general approach to large-scale problems.
Typically, the essential ingredient of these methods is some form of randomized
dimension reduction, which accelerates computations, but also creates random
approximation error. In this way, the dimension reduction step encodes a
tradeoff between cost and accuracy. However, the exact numerical relationship
between cost and accuracy is typically unknown, and consequently, it may be
difficult for the user to precisely know (1) how accurate a given solution is,
or (2) how much computation is needed to achieve a given level of accuracy. In
the current paper, we study randomized matrix multiplication (sketching) as a
prototype setting for addressing these general problems. As a solution, we
develop a bootstrap method for \emph{directly estimating} the accuracy as a
function of the reduced dimension (as opposed to deriving worst-case bounds on
the accuracy in terms of the reduced dimension). From a computational
standpoint, the proposed method does not substantially increase the cost of
standard sketching methods, and this is made possible by an "extrapolation"
technique. In addition, we provide both theoretical and empirical results to
demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.


GIANT: Globally Improved Approximate Newton Method for Distributed
  Optimization

  For distributed computing environment, we consider the empirical risk
minimization problem and propose a distributed and communication-efficient
Newton-type optimization method. At every iteration, each worker locally finds
an Approximate NewTon (ANT) direction, which is sent to the main driver. The
main driver, then, averages all the ANT directions received from workers to
form a {\it Globally Improved ANT} (GIANT) direction. GIANT is highly
communication efficient and naturally exploits the trade-offs between local
computations and global communications in that more local computations result
in fewer overall rounds of communications. Theoretically, we show that GIANT
enjoys an improved convergence rate as compared with first-order methods and
existing distributed Newton-type methods. Further, and in sharp contrast with
many existing distributed Newton-type methods, as well as popular first-order
methods, a highly advantageous practical feature of GIANT is that it only
involves one tuning parameter. We conduct large-scale experiments on a computer
cluster and, empirically, demonstrate the superior performance of GIANT.


Error Estimation for Randomized Least-Squares Algorithms via the
  Bootstrap

  Over the course of the past decade, a variety of randomized algorithms have
been proposed for computing approximate least-squares (LS) solutions in
large-scale settings. A longstanding practical issue is that, for any given
input, the user rarely knows the actual error of an approximate solution
(relative to the exact solution). Likewise, it is difficult for the user to
know precisely how much computation is needed to achieve the desired error
tolerance. Consequently, the user often appeals to worst-case error bounds that
tend to offer only qualitative guidance. As a more practical alternative, we
propose a bootstrap method to compute a posteriori error estimates for
randomized LS algorithms. These estimates permit the user to numerically assess
the error of a given solution, and to predict how much work is needed to
improve a "preliminary" solution. In addition, we provide theoretical
consistency results for the method, which are the first such results in this
context (to the best of our knowledge). From a practical standpoint, the method
also has considerable flexibility, insofar as it can be applied to several
popular sketching algorithms, as well as a variety of error metrics. Moreover,
the extra step of error estimation does not add much cost to an underlying
sketching algorithm. Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of the method
with empirical results.


Detection of bosonic mode as a signature of magnetic excitation in one
  unit cell FeSe on SrTiO3

  We report an in situ scanning tunneling spectroscopy study of one-unit-cell
(1-UC) FeSe film on SrTiO3(001) (STO) substrate. In quasiparticle density of
states, bosonic excitation mode characterized by the "dip-hump" structure is
detected outside the larger superconducting gap with energy comparable with
phonon and spin resonance modes in heavily electron-doped iron selenides.
Statistically, the excitation mode, which is intimately correlated with
superconductivity, shows an anticorrelation with pairing strength and yields an
energy scale upper-bounded by twice the superconducting gap coinciding with the
characteristics of magnetic resonance in cuprates and iron-based
superconductors. The local response of tunneling spectra to magnetically
different Se defects all exhibits the induced in-gap quasiparticle bound
states, indicating an unconventional sign-reversing pairing. These results
support the magnetic nature of the excitation mode and possibly reveal a
signature of electron-magnetic-excitation coupling in high-temperature
superconductivity of 1-UC FeSe/STO.


Detection of a zero energy bound state induced on high temperature
  superconducting one-unit-cell FeSe on SrTiO3

  Majorana zero modes (MZMs) that obey the non-Abelian statistics have been
intensively investigated for potential applications in topological quantum
computing. The prevailing signal in tunneling experiments "fingerprinting" the
existence of MZM is the zero-energy bound state (ZEBS). However, nearly all of
the previously reported ZEBSs showing signatures of the MZMs are observed in
difficult-to-fabricate heterostructures and survived at very low temperatures.
By using in situ scanning tunneling spectroscopy, we detect a ZEBS upon Fe
adatom on one-unit-cell FeSe film grown on SrTiO3(001) that exhibits the
highest transition temperature among iron-based superconductors. The
experimental findings are partially consistent with the spectroscopic
characteristics of the MZM, which may stimulate future MZM explorations in
connate topological superconductors and towards an applicable temperature
regime.


Sketched Ridge Regression: Optimization Perspective, Statistical
  Perspective, and Model Averaging

  We address the statistical and optimization impacts of the classical sketch
and Hessian sketch used to approximately solve the Matrix Ridge Regression
(MRR) problem. Prior research has quantified the effects of classical sketch on
the strictly simpler least squares regression (LSR) problem. We establish that
classical sketch has a similar effect upon the optimization properties of MRR
as it does on those of LSR: namely, it recovers nearly optimal solutions. By
contrast, Hessian sketch does not have this guarantee, instead, the
approximation error is governed by a subtle interplay between the "mass" in the
responses and the optimal objective value.
  For both types of approximation, the regularization in the sketched MRR
problem results in significantly different statistical properties from those of
the sketched LSR problem. In particular, there is a bias-variance trade-off in
sketched MRR that is not present in sketched LSR. We provide upper and lower
bounds on the bias and variance of sketched MRR, these bounds show that
classical sketch significantly increases the variance, while Hessian sketch
significantly increases the bias. Empirically, sketched MRR solutions can have
risks that are higher by an order-of-magnitude than those of the optimal MRR
solutions.
  We establish theoretically and empirically that model averaging greatly
decreases the gap between the risks of the true and sketched solutions to the
MRR problem. Thus, in parallel or distributed settings, sketching combined with
model averaging is a powerful technique that quickly obtains near-optimal
solutions to the MRR problem while greatly mitigating the increased statistical
risk incurred by sketching.


Scalable Kernel K-Means Clustering with Nystrom Approximation:
  Relative-Error Bounds

  Kernel $k$-means clustering can correctly identify and extract a far more
varied collection of cluster structures than the linear $k$-means clustering
algorithm. However, kernel $k$-means clustering is computationally expensive
when the non-linear feature map is high-dimensional and there are many input
points. Kernel approximation, e.g., the Nystr\"om method, has been applied in
previous works to approximately solve kernel learning problems when both of the
above conditions are present. This work analyzes the application of this
paradigm to kernel $k$-means clustering, and shows that applying the linear
$k$-means clustering algorithm to $\frac{k}{\epsilon} (1 + o(1))$ features
constructed using a so-called rank-restricted Nystr\"om approximation results
in cluster assignments that satisfy a $1 + \epsilon$ approximation ratio in
terms of the kernel $k$-means cost function, relative to the guarantee provided
by the same algorithm without the use of the Nystr\"om method. As part of the
analysis, this work establishes a novel $1 + \epsilon$ relative-error trace
norm guarantee for low-rank approximation using the rank-restricted Nystr\"om
approximation. Empirical evaluations on the $8.1$ million instance MNIST8M
dataset demonstrate the scalability and usefulness of kernel $k$-means
clustering with Nystr\"om approximation. This work argues that spectral
clustering using Nystr\"om approximation---a popular and computationally
efficient, but theoretically unsound approach to non-linear clustering---should
be replaced with the efficient and theoretically sound combination of kernel
$k$-means clustering with Nystr\"om approximation. The superior performance of
the latter approach is empirically verified.


EP-GIG Priors and Applications in Bayesian Sparse Learning

  In this paper we propose a novel framework for the construction of
sparsity-inducing priors. In particular, we define such priors as a mixture of
exponential power distributions with a generalized inverse Gaussian density
(EP-GIG). EP-GIG is a variant of generalized hyperbolic distributions, and the
special cases include Gaussian scale mixtures and Laplace scale mixtures.
Furthermore, Laplace scale mixtures can subserve a Bayesian framework for
sparse learning with nonconvex penalization. The densities of EP-GIG can be
explicitly expressed. Moreover, the corresponding posterior distribution also
follows a generalized inverse Gaussian distribution. These properties lead us
to EM algorithms for Bayesian sparse learning. We show that these algorithms
bear an interesting resemblance to iteratively re-weighted $\ell_2$ or $\ell_1$
methods. In addition, we present two extensions for grouped variable selection
and logistic regression.


OverSketch: Approximate Matrix Multiplication for the Cloud

  We propose OverSketch, an approximate algorithm for distributed matrix
multiplication in serverless computing. OverSketch leverages ideas from matrix
sketching and high-performance computing to enable cost-efficient
multiplication that is resilient to faults and straggling nodes pervasive in
low-cost serverless architectures. We establish statistical guarantees on the
accuracy of OverSketch and empirically validate our results by solving a
large-scale linear program using interior-point methods and demonstrate a 34%
reduction in compute time on AWS Lambda.


Do Subsampled Newton Methods Work for High-Dimensional Data?

  Subsampled Newton methods approximate Hessian matrices through subsampling
techniques, alleviating the cost of forming Hessian matrices but using
sufficient curvature information. However, previous results require $\Omega
(d)$ samples to approximate Hessians, where $d$ is the dimension of data
points, making it less practically feasible for high-dimensional data. The
situation is deteriorated when $d$ is comparably as large as the number of data
points $n$, which requires to take the whole dataset into account, making
subsampling useless. This paper theoretically justifies the effectiveness of
subsampled Newton methods on high dimensional data. Specifically, we prove only
$\widetilde{\Theta}(d^\gamma_{\rm eff})$ samples are needed in the
approximation of Hessian matrices, where $d^\gamma_{\rm eff}$ is the
$\gamma$-ridge leverage and can be much smaller than $d$ as long as $n\gamma
\gg 1$. Additionally, we extend this result so that subsampled Newton methods
can work for high-dimensional data on both distributed optimization problems
and non-smooth regularized problems.


Efficient Data-Driven Geologic Feature Detection from Pre-stack Seismic
  Measurements using Randomized Machine-Learning Algorithm

  Conventional seismic techniques for detecting the subsurface geologic
features are challenged by limited data coverage, computational inefficiency,
and subjective human factors. We developed a novel data-driven geological
feature detection approach based on pre-stack seismic measurements. Our
detection method employs an efficient and accurate machine-learning detection
approach to extract useful subsurface geologic features automatically.
Specifically, our method is based on kernel ridge regression model. The
conventional kernel ridge regression can be computationally prohibited because
of the large volume of seismic measurements. We employ a data reduction
technique in combination with the conventional kernel ridge regression method
to improve the computational efficiency and reduce memory usage. In particular,
we utilize a randomized numerical linear algebra technique, named Nystr\"om
method, to effectively reduce the dimensionality of the feature space without
compromising the information content required for accurate detection. We
provide thorough computational cost analysis to show efficiency of our new
geological feature detection methods. We further validate the performance of
our new subsurface geologic feature detection method using synthetic surface
seismic data for 2D acoustic and elastic velocity models. Our numerical
examples demonstrate that our new detection method significantly improves the
computational efficiency while maintaining comparable accuracy. Interestingly,
we show that our method yields a speed-up ratio on the order of $\sim10^2$ to
$\sim 10^3$ in a multi-core computational environment.


Alchemist: An Apache Spark <=> MPI Interface

  The Apache Spark framework for distributed computation is popular in the data
analytics community due to its ease of use, but its MapReduce-style programming
model can incur significant overheads when performing computations that do not
map directly onto this model. One way to mitigate these costs is to off-load
computations onto MPI codes. In recent work, we introduced Alchemist, a system
for the analysis of large-scale data sets. Alchemist calls MPI-based libraries
from within Spark applications, and it has minimal coding, communication, and
memory overheads. In particular, Alchemist allows users to retain the
productivity benefits of working within the Spark software ecosystem without
sacrificing performance efficiency in linear algebra, machine learning, and
other related computations.
  In this paper, we discuss the motivation behind the development of Alchemist,
and we provide a detailed overview its design and usage. We also demonstrate
the efficiency of our approach on medium-to-large data sets, using some
standard linear algebra operations, namely matrix multiplication and the
truncated singular value decomposition of a dense matrix, and we compare the
performance of Spark with that of Spark+Alchemist. These computations are run
on the NERSC supercomputer Cori Phase 1, a Cray XC40.


Accelerating Large-Scale Data Analysis by Offloading to High-Performance
  Computing Libraries using Alchemist

  Apache Spark is a popular system aimed at the analysis of large data sets,
but recent studies have shown that certain computations---in particular, many
linear algebra computations that are the basis for solving common machine
learning problems---are significantly slower in Spark than when done using
libraries written in a high-performance computing framework such as the
Message-Passing Interface (MPI).
  To remedy this, we introduce Alchemist, a system designed to call MPI-based
libraries from Apache Spark. Using Alchemist with Spark helps accelerate linear
algebra, machine learning, and related computations, while still retaining the
benefits of working within the Spark environment. We discuss the motivation
behind the development of Alchemist, and we provide a brief overview of its
design and implementation.
  We also compare the performances of pure Spark implementations with those of
Spark implementations that leverage MPI-based codes via Alchemist. To do so, we
use data science case studies: a large-scale application of the conjugate
gradient method to solve very large linear systems arising in a speech
classification problem, where we see an improvement of an order of magnitude;
and the truncated singular value decomposition (SVD) of a 400GB
three-dimensional ocean temperature data set, where we see a speedup of up to
7.9x. We also illustrate that the truncated SVD computation is easily scalable
to terabyte-sized data by applying it to data sets of sizes up to 17.6TB.


