Quantifier Elimination over Finite Fields Using Gröbner Bases

  We give an algebraic quantifier elimination algorithm for the first-order
theory over any given finite field using Gr\"obner basis methods. The algorithm
relies on the strong Nullstellensatz and properties of elimination ideals over
finite fields. We analyze the theoretical complexity of the algorithm and show
its application in the formal analysis of a biological controller model.


Satisfiability Modulo ODEs

  We study SMT problems over the reals containing ordinary differential
equations. They are important for formal verification of realistic hybrid
systems and embedded software. We develop delta-complete algorithms for SMT
formulas that are purely existentially quantified, as well as exists-forall
formulas whose universal quantification is restricted to the time variables. We
demonstrate scalability of the algorithms, as implemented in our open-source
solver dReal, on SMT benchmarks with several hundred nonlinear ODEs and
variables.


Delta-Complete Analysis for Bounded Reachability of Hybrid Systems

  We present the framework of delta-complete analysis for bounded reachability
problems of general hybrid systems. We perform bounded reachability checking
through solving delta-decision problems over the reals. The techniques take
into account of robustness properties of the systems under numerical
perturbations. We prove that the verification problems become much more
mathematically tractable in this new framework. Our implementation of the
techniques, an open-source tool dReach, scales well on several highly nonlinear
hybrid system models that arise in biomedical and robotics applications.


Proof Generation from Delta-Decisions

  We show how to generate and validate logical proofs of unsatisfiability from
delta-complete decision procedures that rely on error-prone numerical
algorithms. Solving this problem is important for ensuring correctness of the
decision procedures. At the same time, it is a new approach for automated
theorem proving over real numbers. We design a first-order calculus, and
transform the computational steps of constraint solving into logic proofs,
which are then validated using proof-checking algorithms. As an application, we
demonstrate how proofs generated from our solver can establish many nonlinear
lemmas in the the formal proof of the Kepler Conjecture.


Delta-Decidability over the Reals

  Given any collection F of computable functions over the reals, we show that
there exists an algorithm that, given any L_F-sentence \varphi containing only
bounded quantifiers, and any positive rational number \delta, decides either
"\varphi is true", or "a \delta-strengthening of \varphi is false". Under mild
assumptions, for a C-computable signature F, the \delta-decision problem for
bounded \Sigma_k-sentences in L_F resides in (\Sigma_k^P)^C. The results stand
in sharp contrast to the well-known undecidability results, and serve as a
theoretical basis for the use of numerical methods in decision procedures for
nonlinear first-order theories over the reals.


Revisiting the Complexity of Stability of Continuous and Hybrid Systems

  We develop a framework to give upper bounds on the "practical" computational
complexity of stability problems for a wide range of nonlinear continuous and
hybrid systems. To do so, we describe stability properties of dynamical systems
using first-order formulas over the real numbers, and reduce stability problems
to the delta-decision problems of these formulas. The framework allows us to
obtain a precise characterization of the complexity of different notions of
stability for nonlinear continuous and hybrid systems. We prove that bounded
versions of the stability problems are generally decidable, and give upper
bounds on their complexity. The unbounded versions are generally undecidable,
for which we give upper bounds on their degrees of unsolvability.


Descriptive Control Theory: A Proposal

  Logic is playing an increasingly important role in the engineering of
real-time, hybrid, and cyber-physical systems, but mostly in the form of
posterior verification and high-level analysis. The core methodology in the
design of real-world systems consists mainly of control theory and numerical
analysis, and has remained mostly free of logic and formal approaches. As a
result, besides facing extreme difficulty in guaranteeing the reliability of
these systems, engineers are also missing out the computational power of
logic-based methods that has greatly advanced in the past decades. To change
this situation, we need a logical and computational foundation for control
theory. The name "descriptive control theory" emphasizes the overarching theme
of using logic to express, analyze, and solve problems in control theory. If
the program is successfully carried out, logical approaches will significantly
extend existing engineering methods towards a unified methodology for handling
nonlinear and hybrid systems, and bring design automation and reliability to an
unprecedented level in the broad field of engineering.


REAS: Combining Numerical Optimization with SAT Solving

  In this paper, we present ReaS, a technique that combines numerical
optimization with SAT solving to synthesize unknowns in a program that involves
discrete and floating point computation. ReaS makes the program end-to-end
differentiable by smoothing any Boolean expression that introduces
discontinuity such as conditionals and relaxing the Boolean unknowns so that
numerical optimization can be performed. On top of this, ReaS uses a SAT solver
to help the numerical search overcome local solutions by incrementally fixing
values to the Boolean expressions. We evaluated the approach on 5 case studies
involving hybrid systems and show that ReaS can synthesize programs that could
not be solved by previous SMT approaches.


Delta-Decision Procedures for Exists-Forall Problems over the Reals

  Solving nonlinear SMT problems over real numbers has wide applications in
robotics and AI. While significant progress is made in solving quantifier-free
SMT formulas in the domain, quantified formulas have been much less
investigated. We propose the first delta-complete algorithm for solving
satisfiability of nonlinear SMT over real numbers with universal quantification
and a wide range of nonlinear functions. Our methods combine ideas from
counterexample-guided synthesis, interval constraint propagation, and local
optimization. In particular, we show how special care is required in handling
the interleaving of numerical and symbolic reasoning to ensure
delta-completeness. In experiments, we show that the proposed algorithms can
handle many new problems beyond the reach of existing SMT solvers.


Delta-Complete Decision Procedures for Satisfiability over the Reals

  We introduce the notion of "\delta-complete decision procedures" for solving
SMT problems over the real numbers, with the aim of handling a wide range of
nonlinear functions including transcendental functions and solutions of
Lipschitz-continuous ODEs. Given an SMT problem \varphi and a positive rational
number \delta, a \delta-complete decision procedure determines either that
\varphi is unsatisfiable, or that the "\delta-weakening" of \varphi is
satisfiable. Here, the \delta-weakening of \varphi is a variant of \varphi that
allows \delta-bounded numerical perturbations on \varphi. We prove the
existence of \delta-complete decision procedures for bounded SMT over reals
with functions mentioned above. For functions in Type 2 complexity class C,
under mild assumptions, the bounded \delta-SMT problem is in NP^C.
\delta-Complete decision procedures can exploit scalable numerical methods for
handling nonlinearity, and we propose to use this notion as an ideal
requirement for numerically-driven decision procedures. As a concrete example,
we formally analyze the DPLL<ICP> framework, which integrates Interval
Constraint Propagation (ICP) in DPLL(T), and establish necessary and sufficient
conditions for its \delta-completeness. We discuss practical applications of
\delta-complete decision procedures for correctness-critical applications
including formal verification and theorem proving.


Towards Personalized Prostate Cancer Therapy Using Delta-Reachability
  Analysis

  Recent clinical studies suggest that the efficacy of hormone therapy for
prostate cancer depends on the characteristics of individual patients. In this
paper, we develop a computational framework for identifying patient-specific
androgen ablation therapy schedules for postponing the potential cancer
relapse. We model the population dynamics of heterogeneous prostate cancer
cells in response to androgen suppression as a nonlinear hybrid automaton. We
estimate personalized kinetic parameters to characterize patients and employ
$\delta$-reachability analysis to predict patient-specific therapeutic
strategies. The results show that our methods are promising and may lead to a
prognostic tool for personalized cancer therapy.


Parameter Synthesis for Cardiac Cell Hybrid Models Using Delta-Decisions

  A central problem in systems biology is to identify parameter values such
that a biological model satisfies some behavioral constraints (\eg, time
series). In this paper we focus on parameter synthesis for hybrid
(continuous/discrete) models, as many biological systems can possess multiple
operational modes with specific continuous dynamics in each mode. These
biological systems are naturally modeled as hybrid automata, most often with
nonlinear continuous dynamics. However, hybrid automata are notoriously hard to
analyze --- even simple reachability for hybrid systems with linear
differential dynamics is an undecidable problem. In this paper we present a
parameter synthesis framework based on $\delta$-complete decision procedures
that sidesteps undecidability. We demonstrate our method on two highly
nonlinear hybrid models of the cardiac cell action potential. The results show
that our parameter synthesis framework is convenient and efficient, and it
enabled us to select a suitable model to study and identify crucial parameter
ranges related to cardiac disorders.


Tight Continuous-Time Reachtubes for Lagrangian Reachability

  We introduce continuous Lagrangian reachability (CLRT), a new algorithm for
the computation of a tight and continuous-time reachtube for the solution flows
of a nonlinear, time-variant dynamical system. CLRT employs finite strain
theory to determine the deformation of the solution set from time $t_i$ to time
$t_{i+1}$. We have developed simple explicit analytic formulas for the optimal
metric for this deformation; this is superior to prior work, which used
semi-definite programming. CLRT also uses infinitesimal strain theory to derive
an optimal time increment $h_i$ between $t_i$ and $t_{i+1}$, nonlinear
optimization to minimally bloat (i.e., using a minimal radius) the state set at
time $t_i$ such that it includes all the states of the solution flow in the
interval $[t_i,t_{i+1}]$. We use $\delta$-satisfiability to ensure the
correctness of the bloating. Our results on a series of benchmarks show that
CLRT performs favorably compared to state-of-the-art tools such as CAPD in
terms of the continuous reachtube volumes they compute.


SReach: A Bounded Model Checker for Stochastic Hybrid Systems

  In this paper we describe a new tool, SReach, which solves probabilistic
bounded reachability problems for two classes of stochastic hybrid systems. The
first one is (nonlinear) hybrid automata with parametric uncertainty. The
second one is probabilistic hybrid automata with additional randomness for both
transition probabilities and variable resets. Standard approaches to
reachability problems for linear hybrid systems require numerical solutions for
large optimization problems, and become infeasible for systems involving both
nonlinear dynamics over the reals and stochasticity. Our approach encodes
stochastic information by using random variables, and combines the randomized
sampling, a $\delta$-complete decision procedure, and statistical tests. SReach
utilizes the $\delta$-complete decision procedure to solve reachability
problems in a sound manner, i.e., it always decides correctly if, for a given
assignment to all random variables, the system actually reaches the unsafe
region. The statistical tests adapted guarantee arbitrary small error bounds
between probabilities estimated by SReach and real ones. Compared to standard
simulation-based methods, our approach supports non-deterministic branching,
increases the coverage of simulation, and avoids the zero-crossing problem. We
demonstrate our method's feasibility by applying SReach to three representative
biological models and to additional benchmarks for nonlinear hybrid systems
with multiple probabilistic system parameters.


How to pick the domain randomization parameters for sim-to-real transfer
  of reinforcement learning policies?

  Recently, reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms have demonstrated remarkable
success in learning complicated behaviors from minimally processed input.
However, most of this success is limited to simulation. While there are
promising successes in applying RL algorithms directly on real systems, their
performance on more complex systems remains bottle-necked by the relative data
inefficiency of RL algorithms. Domain randomization is a promising direction of
research that has demonstrated impressive results using RL algorithms to
control real robots. At a high level, domain randomization works by training a
policy on a distribution of environmental conditions in simulation. If the
environments are diverse enough, then the policy trained on this distribution
will plausibly generalize to the real world. A human-specified design choice in
domain randomization is the form and parameters of the distribution of
simulated environments. It is unclear how to the best pick the form and
parameters of this distribution and prior work uses hand-tuned distributions.
This extended abstract demonstrates that the choice of the distribution plays a
major role in the performance of the trained policies in the real world and
that the parameter of this distribution can be optimized to maximize the
performance of the trained policies in the real world


