Ask, and shall you receive?: Understanding Desire Fulfillment in Natural
  Language Text

  The ability to comprehend wishes or desires and their fulfillment is
important to Natural Language Understanding. This paper introduces the task of
identifying if a desire expressed by a subject in a given short piece of text
was fulfilled. We propose various unstructured and structured models that
capture fulfillment cues such as the subject's emotional state and actions. Our
experiments with two different datasets demonstrate the importance of
understanding the narrative and discourse structure to address this task.


Modeling Dynamic Relationships Between Characters in Literary Novels

  Studying characters plays a vital role in computationally representing and
interpreting narratives. Unlike previous work, which has focused on inferring
character roles, we focus on the problem of modeling their relationships.
Rather than assuming a fixed relationship for a character pair, we hypothesize
that relationships are dynamic and temporally evolve with the progress of the
narrative, and formulate the problem of relationship modeling as a structured
prediction problem. We propose a semi-supervised framework to learn
relationship sequences from fully as well as partially labeled data. We present
a Markovian model capable of accumulating historical beliefs about the
relationship and status changes. We use a set of rich linguistic and
semantically motivated features that incorporate world knowledge to investigate
the textual content of narrative. We empirically demonstrate that such a
framework outperforms competitive baselines.


Inferring Interpersonal Relations in Narrative Summaries

  Characterizing relationships between people is fundamental for the
understanding of narratives. In this work, we address the problem of inferring
the polarity of relationships between people in narrative summaries. We
formulate the problem as a joint structured prediction for each narrative, and
present a model that combines evidence from linguistic and semantic features,
as well as features based on the structure of the social community in the text.
We also provide a clustering-based approach that can exploit regularities in
narrative types. e.g., learn an affinity for love-triangles in romantic
stories. On a dataset of movie summaries from Wikipedia, our structured models
provide more than a 30% error-reduction over a competitive baseline that
considers pairs of characters in isolation.


Discovering Archetypes to Interpret Evolution of Individual Behavior

  In this paper, we aim to discover archetypical patterns of individual
evolution in large social networks. In our work, an archetype comprises of
$\textit{progressive stages}$ of distinct behavior. We introduce a novel
Gaussian Hidden Markov Model (G-HMM) Cluster to identify archetypes of
evolutionary patterns. G-HMMs allow for: near limitless behavioral variation;
imposing constraints on how individuals can evolve; different evolutionary
rates; and are parsimonious. Our experiments with Academic and StackExchange
dataset discover insightful archetypes. We identify four archetypes for
researchers: $\textit{Steady}$, $\textit{Diverse, Evolving and Diffuse}$. We
observe clear differences in the evolution of male and female researchers
within the same archetype. Specifically, women and men differ within an
archetype (e.g. Diverse) in how they start, how they transition and the time
spent in mid-career. We also found that the differences in grant income are
better explained by the differences in archetype than by differences in gender.
For StackOverflow, discovered archetypes could be labeled as $\textit{Experts,
Seekers, Enthusiasts, and Facilitators}$. We have strong quantitative results
with competing baselines for activity prediction and perplexity. For future
session prediction, the proposed G-HMM cluster model improves by an average of
$32\%$ for different Stack Exchanges and $24\%$ for Academic dataset. Our model
also exhibits lower perplexity than the baselines.


