Identifying Galactic PeVatrons with Neutrinos

  We perform a realistic evaluation of the potential of IceCube, a
kilometer-scale neutrino detector under construction at the South Pole, to
detect neutrinos in the direction of the potential accelerators of the Galactic
cosmic rays. We take fully account of the fact that the measurement of the
energy of the secondary muons can be used to further discriminate between the
signal and the background of atmospheric neutrinos. We conclude that IceCube
could identify the sources in the Milagro sky map as the sources of the
Galactic cosmic rays at the 3 sigma level in one year and at the 5 sigma level
in three years. We discuss the dependence of these expectations on ambiguities,
mostly associated with our incomplete knowledge of the astrophysics of the
sources.


130 GeV Gamma Ray Signal in NMSSM by Internal Bremsstrahlung

  There is a possible \gamma-ray signal at 130 GeV coming from the Galactic
Center as seen by Fermi-LAT experiment. We give a SUSY dark matter model to
explain this \gamma-ray feature in NMSSM. We show that in NMSSM, one can have a
benchmark set in which the \gamma-ray signal arises from final state \gamma's
in the $\chi\chi \to f \bar f \gamma $ annihilation of a 130 GeV bino dark
matter requiring a boost factor of ~590 to fit the \gamma-ray signal. In
addition, this benchmark set also gives the correct relic density, lightest
Higgs mass of 125 GeV and is consistent with constraints on SUSY from LHC. This
dark matter model evades the XENON100 constraint but is testable in a future
XENON1T experiment.


Relic density and PAMELA events in a heavy wino dark matter model with
  Sommerfeld effect

  In a wino LSP scenario the annihilation cross section of winos
gravitationally bound in galaxies can be boosted by a Sommerfeld enhancement
factor which arises due to the ladder of exchanged W bosons between the initial
states. The boost factor obtained can be in the range S ~ 10^4 if the mass is
close to the resonance value of M ~ 4 TeV. In this paper we show that if one
takes into account the Sommerfeld enhancement in the relic abundance
calculation then the correct relic density is obtained for 4 TeV wino mass due
to the enhanced annihilation after their kinetic decoupling. At the same time
the Sommerfeld enhancement in the \chi \chi --> W^+ W^- annihilation channel is
sufficient to explain the positron flux seen in PAMELA data without
significantly exceeding the observed antiproton signal. We also show that (e^-
+ e^+) and gamma ray signals are broadly compatible with the Fermi-LAT
observations. In conclusion we show that a 4 TeV wino DM can explain the
positron and antiproton fluxes observed by PAMELA and at the same time give a
thermal relic abundance of CDM consistent with WMAP observations.


Constraints on Born-Infeld gravity from the speed of gravitational waves
  after GW170817 and GRB 170817A

  The observations of gravitational waves from the binary neutron star merger
event GW170817 and the subsequent observation of its electromagnetic
counterparts from the gamma-ray burst GRB 170817A provide us a significant
opportunity to study theories of gravity beyond general relativity. An
important outcome of these observations is that they constrain the difference
between the speed of gravity and the speed of light to less than $10^{-15}c$.
Also, the time delay between the arrivals of gravitational waves at different
detectors constrains the speed of gravity at the Earth to be in the range
$0.55c < v_{gw} < 1.42c$. We use these results to constrain a widely studied
modified theory of gravity: Eddington-inspired Born-Infeld (EiBI) gravity. We
show that, in EiBI theory, the speed of gravitational waves in matter deviates
from $c$. From the time delay in arrival of gravitational wave signals at
Earth-based detectors, we obtain the bound on the theory parameter $\kappa$ as
$\vert\kappa\vert \lesssim 10^{21}\, m^2$. Similarly, from the time delay
between the signals of GW170817 and GRB 170817A, in a background
Friedmann-Robertson-Walker universe, we obtain $\vert \kappa \vert \lesssim
10^{37}\, m^2$. Although the bounds on $\kappa$ are weak compared to other
earlier bounds from the study of neutron stars, stellar evolution, primordial
nucleosynthesis, etc., our bounds are from the direct observations and thus
worth noting.


Electron Capture Rates of Mid-fp Shell Nuclei for Supernova and Stellar
  Evolution

  A detailed model is constructed for the calculation of electron capture rates
of some fp-shell nuclei for situations prevailing in pre-supernova and collapse
phases of the evolution of the core of massive stars leading to supernova
explosion. The model uses explicitly the Gamow-Teller strength function
obtained through (n,p) reaction studies wherever available. The rates include
contribution from the excited states of the mother as well as from the resonant
states in equilibrium with the back reaction i.e. the beta decay of the
daughter nucleus. Comparisons are made with the shell model results and the
earlier calculations by Aufderheide et al. and Fuller, Fowler and Newman. For
the nuclei $^{56}$Fe, $^{55}$Mn and $^{60}$Ni with negative Q-values one
observes large contribution from the excited states.


Detecting an association between Gamma Ray and Gravitational Wave Bursts

  If $\gamma$-ray bursts (GRBs) are accompanied by gravitational wave bursts
(GWBs) the correlated output of two gravitational wave detectors evaluated in
the moments just prior to a GRB will differ from that evaluated at times not
associated with a GRB. We can test for this difference independently of any
model of the GWB signal waveform. If we invoke a model for the GRB source
population and GWB radiation spectral density we can find a confidence interval
or upper limit on the root-mean-square GWB signal amplitude in the detector
waveband. To illustrate we adopt a simple, physically motivated model and
estimate that initial LIGO detector observations coincident with 1000 GRBs
could lead us to exclude, with 95% confidence, associated GWBs with $h_{RMS}
\gtrsim 1.7 \times 10^{-22}$. This result does not require the detector noise
be Gaussian or that any inter-detector correlated noise be measured or
measurable; it does not require advanced or a priori knowledge of the source
waveform; and the limits obtained on the wave-strength improve with the number
of observed GRBs.


Learning Bayesian Network Structure from Correlation-Immune Data

  Searching the complete space of possible Bayesian networks is intractable for
problems of interesting size, so Bayesian network structure learning
algorithms, such as the commonly used Sparse Candidate algorithm, employ
heuristics. However, these heuristics also restrict the types of relationships
that can be learned exclusively from data. They are unable to learn
relationships that exhibit "correlation-immunity", such as parity. To learn
Bayesian networks in the presence of correlation-immune relationships, we
extend the Sparse Candidate algorithm with a technique called "skewing". This
technique uses the observation that relationships that are correlation-immune
under a specific input distribution may not be correlation-immune under
another, sufficiently different distribution. We show that by extending Sparse
Candidate with this technique we are able to discover relationships between
random variables that are approximately correlation-immune, with a
significantly lower computational cost than the alternative of considering
multiple parents of a node at a time.


Proposed method for searches of gravitational waves from PKS 2155-304
  and other blazar flares

  We propose to search for gravitational waves from PKS 2155-304 as well as
other blazars. PKS 2155-304 emitted a long duration energetic flare in July
2006, with total isotropic equivalent energy released in TeV gamma rays of
approximately $10^{45}$ ergs. Any possible gravitational wave signals
associated with this outburst should be seen by gravitational wave detectors at
the same time as the electromagnetic signal. During this flare, the two LIGO
interferometers at Hanford and the GEO detector were in operation and
collecting data. For this search we will use the data from multiple
gravitational wave detectors. The method we use for this purpose is a coherent
network analysis algorithm and is called {\tt RIDGE}. To estimate the
sensitivity of the search, we perform numerical simulations. The sensitivity to
estimated gravitational wave energy at the source is about $2.5 \times 10^{55}$
ergs for a detection probability of 20%. For this search, an end-to-end
analysis pipeline has been developed, which takes into account the motion of
the source across the sky.


Colloidal graphite/graphene nanostructures using collagen showing
  enhanced thermal conductivity

  Time kinetics of interaction of natural graphite (GR) to colloidal graphene
(G) collagen (C) nanocomposites was studied at ambient conditions, and observed
that just one day at ambient conditions is enough to form colloidal graphene
directly from graphite using the protein collagen. Neither controlled
temperature and pressure ambiance nor sonication was needed for the same;
thereby rendering the process biomimetic. Detailed spectroscopy, X ray
diffraction, electron microscopy as well as fluorescence and luminescence
assisted characterization of the colloidal dispersions on day one and day seven
reveals graphene and collagen interaction and subsequent rearrangement to form
an open structure. Detailed confocal microscopy, in the liquid state, reveals
the initial attack at the zigzag edges of GR, the enhancement of auto
fluorescence and finally the opening up of graphitic stacks of GR to form near
transparent G. Atomic Force Microscopy studies prove the existence of both
collagen and graphene and the disruption of periodicity at the atomic level.
Thermal conductivity of the colloid shows a 17% enhancement for a volume
fraction of less than 0.00005 of G. Time variant increase in thermal
conductivity provides qualitative evidence for the transient exfoliation of GR
to G. The composite reveals interesting properties that could propel it as a
future material for advanced bio applications including therapeutics.


Particle Production in Ultra-Strong Coupling Waveguide QED

  Understanding large-scale interacting quantum matter requires dealing with
the huge number of quanta that are produced by scattering even a few particles
against a complex quantum object. Prominent examples are found from high energy
cosmic ray showers to the optical or electrical driving of degenerate Fermi
gases. We tackle this challenge in the context of many-body quantum optics, as
motivated by the recent developments of circuit quantum electrodynamics at
ultrastrong coupling. The issue of particle production is addressed
quantitatively with a simple yet powerful concept rooted in the quantum
superposition principle. This key idea is illustrated by the study of
multi-photon emission from a single two-level artificial atom coupled to a high
impedance waveguide. We find surprisingly that the off-resonant inelastic
emission lineshape is dominated by broadband particle production, due to the
large phase space associated with contributions that do not conserve the number
of excitations. Such frequency conversion processes produce striking signatures
in time correlation measurements, which can be tested experimentally in quantum
waveguides. These ideas open new directions for the simulation of a variety of
physical systems, from polaron dynamics in solids to complex superconducting
quantum architectures.


Mission to the Trojan Asteroids: lessons learned during a JPL Planetary
  Science Summer School mission design exercise

  The 2013 Planetary Science Decadal Survey identified a detailed investigation
of the Trojan asteroids occupying Jupiter's L4 and L5 Lagrange points as a
priority for future NASA missions. Observing these asteroids and measuring
their physical characteristics and composition would aid in identification of
their source and provide answers about their likely impact history and
evolution, thus yielding information about the makeup and dynamics of the early
Solar System. We present a conceptual design for a mission to the Jovian Trojan
asteroids: the Trojan ASteroid Tour, Exploration, and Rendezvous (TASTER)
mission, that is consistent with the NASA New Frontiers candidate mission
recommended by the Decadal Survey and the final result of the 2011 NASA-JPL
Planetary Science Summer School. Our proposed mission includes visits to two
Trojans in the L4 population: a 500 km altitude fly-by of 1999 XS143, followed
by a rendezvous with and detailed observations of 911 Agamemnon at orbital
altitudes of 1000 - 100 km over a 12 month nominal science data capture period.
Our proposed instrument payload - wide- and narrow-angle cameras, a visual and
infrared mapping spectrometer, and a neutron/gamma ray spectrometer - would
provide unprecedented high-resolution, regional-to-global datasets for the
target bodies, yielding fundamental information about the early history and
evolution of the Solar System. Although our mission design was completed as
part of an academic exercise, this study serves as a useful starting point for
future Trojan mission design studies. In particular, we identify and discuss
key issues that can make large differences in the complex trade-offs required
when designing a mission to the Trojan asteroids.


