Application of Statistical Relational Learning to Hybrid Recommendation
  Systems

  Recommendation systems usually involve exploiting the relations among known
features and content that describe items (content-based filtering) or the
overlap of similar users who interacted with or rated the target item
(collaborative filtering). To combine these two filtering approaches, current
model-based hybrid recommendation systems typically require extensive feature
engineering to construct a user profile. Statistical Relational Learning (SRL)
provides a straightforward way to combine the two approaches. However, due to
the large scale of the data used in real world recommendation systems, little
research exists on applying SRL models to hybrid recommendation systems, and
essentially none of that research has been applied on real big-data-scale
systems. In this paper, we proposed a way to adapt the state-of-the-art in SRL
learning approaches to construct a real hybrid recommendation system.
Furthermore, in order to satisfy a common requirement in recommendation systems
(i.e. that false positives are more undesirable and therefore penalized more
harshly than false negatives), our approach can also allow tuning the trade-off
between the precision and recall of the system in a principled way. Our
experimental results demonstrate the efficiency of our proposed approach as
well as its improved performance on recommendation precision.


Counting Belief Propagation

  A major benefit of graphical models is that most knowledge is captured in the
model structure. Many models, however, produce inference problems with a lot of
symmetries not reflected in the graphical structure and hence not exploitable
by efficient inference techniques such as belief propagation (BP). In this
paper, we present a new and simple BP algorithm, called counting BP, that
exploits such additional symmetries. Starting from a given factor graph,
counting BP first constructs a compressed factor graph of clusternodes and
clusterfactors, corresponding to sets of nodes and factors that are
indistinguishable given the evidence. Then it runs a modified BP algorithm on
the compressed graph that is equivalent to running BP on the original factor
graph. Our experiments show that counting BP is applicable to a variety of
important AI tasks such as (dynamic) relational models and boolean model
counting, and that significant efficiency gains are obtainable, often by orders
of magnitude.


Learning Relational Dependency Networks for Relation Extraction

  We consider the task of KBP slot filling -- extracting relation information
from newswire documents for knowledge base construction. We present our
pipeline, which employs Relational Dependency Networks (RDNs) to learn
linguistic patterns for relation extraction. Additionally, we demonstrate how
several components such as weak supervision, word2vec features, joint learning
and the use of human advice, can be incorporated in this relational framework.
We evaluate the different components in the benchmark KBP 2015 task and show
that RDNs effectively model a diverse set of features and perform competitively
with current state-of-the-art relation extraction.


Sum-Product Networks for Hybrid Domains

  While all kinds of mixed data -from personal data, over panel and scientific
data, to public and commercial data- are collected and stored, building
probabilistic graphical models for these hybrid domains becomes more difficult.
Users spend significant amounts of time in identifying the parametric form of
the random variables (Gaussian, Poisson, Logit, etc.) involved and learning the
mixed models. To make this difficult task easier, we propose the first
trainable probabilistic deep architecture for hybrid domains that features
tractable queries. It is based on Sum-Product Networks (SPNs) with piecewise
polynomial leave distributions together with novel nonparametric decomposition
and conditioning steps using the Hirschfeld-Gebelein-R\'enyi Maximum
Correlation Coefficient. This relieves the user from deciding a-priori the
parametric form of the random variables but is still expressive enough to
effectively approximate any continuous distribution and permits efficient
learning and inference. Our empirical evidence shows that the architecture,
called Mixed SPNs, can indeed capture complex distributions across a wide range
of hybrid domains.


Preference-Guided Planning: An Active Elicitation Approach

  Planning with preferences has been employed extensively to quickly generate
high-quality plans. However, it may be difficult for the human expert to supply
this information without knowledge of the reasoning employed by the planner and
the distribution of planning problems. We consider the problem of actively
eliciting preferences from a human expert during the planning process.
Specifically, we study this problem in the context of the Hierarchical Task
Network (HTN) planning framework as it allows easy interaction with the human.
Our experimental results on several diverse planning domains show that the
preferences gathered using the proposed approach improve the quality and speed
of the planner, while reducing the burden on the human expert.


Structure Learning for Relational Logistic Regression: An Ensemble
  Approach

  We consider the problem of learning Relational Logistic Regression (RLR).
Unlike standard logistic regression, the features of RLRs are first-order
formulae with associated weight vectors instead of scalar weights. We turn the
problem of learning RLR to learning these vector-weighted formulae and develop
a learning algorithm based on the recently successful functional-gradient
boosting methods for probabilistic logic models. We derive the functional
gradients and show how weights can be learned simultaneously in an efficient
manner. Our empirical evaluation on standard and novel data sets demonstrates
the superiority of our approach over other methods for learning RLR.


