Bayesian Posterior Sampling via Stochastic Gradient Fisher Scoring

  In this paper we address the following question: Can we approximately sample
from a Bayesian posterior distribution if we are only allowed to touch a small
mini-batch of data-items for every sample we generate?. An algorithm based on
the Langevin equation with stochastic gradients (SGLD) was previously proposed
to solve this, but its mixing rate was slow. By leveraging the Bayesian Central
Limit Theorem, we extend the SGLD algorithm so that at high mixing rates it
will sample from a normal approximation of the posterior, while for slow mixing
rates it will mimic the behavior of SGLD with a pre-conditioner matrix. As a
bonus, the proposed algorithm is reminiscent of Fisher scoring (with stochastic
gradients) and as such an efficient optimizer during burn-in.


Large-Scale Distributed Bayesian Matrix Factorization using Stochastic
  Gradient MCMC

  Despite having various attractive qualities such as high prediction accuracy
and the ability to quantify uncertainty and avoid over-fitting, Bayesian Matrix
Factorization has not been widely adopted because of the prohibitive cost of
inference. In this paper, we propose a scalable distributed Bayesian matrix
factorization algorithm using stochastic gradient MCMC. Our algorithm, based on
Distributed Stochastic Gradient Langevin Dynamics, can not only match the
prediction accuracy of standard MCMC methods like Gibbs sampling, but at the
same time is as fast and simple as stochastic gradient descent. In our
experiments, we show that our algorithm can achieve the same level of
prediction accuracy as Gibbs sampling an order of magnitude faster. We also
show that our method reduces the prediction error as fast as distributed
stochastic gradient descent, achieving a 4.1% improvement in RMSE for the
Netflix dataset and an 1.8% for the Yahoo music dataset.


A Neural Knowledge Language Model

  Current language models have a significant limitation in the ability to
encode and decode factual knowledge. This is mainly because they acquire such
knowledge from statistical co-occurrences although most of the knowledge words
are rarely observed. In this paper, we propose a Neural Knowledge Language
Model (NKLM) which combines symbolic knowledge provided by the knowledge graph
with the RNN language model. By predicting whether the word to generate has an
underlying fact or not, the model can generate such knowledge-related words by
copying from the description of the predicted fact. In experiments, we show
that the NKLM significantly improves the performance while generating a much
smaller number of unknown words.


Scalable MCMC for Mixed Membership Stochastic Blockmodels

  We propose a stochastic gradient Markov chain Monte Carlo (SG-MCMC) algorithm
for scalable inference in mixed-membership stochastic blockmodels (MMSB). Our
algorithm is based on the stochastic gradient Riemannian Langevin sampler and
achieves both faster speed and higher accuracy at every iteration than the
current state-of-the-art algorithm based on stochastic variational inference.
In addition we develop an approximation that can handle models that entertain a
very large number of communities. The experimental results show that SG-MCMC
strictly dominates competing algorithms in all cases.


Interlayer correlation between two $^4$He monolayers adsorbed on both
  sides of $α$-graphyne

  Path-integral Monte Carlo calculations have been performed to study the
$^4$He adsorption on both sides of a single $\alpha$-graphyne sheet. For
investigation of the interlayer correlation between the upper and the lower
monolayer of $^4$He adatoms, the $^4$He-substrate interaction is described by
the sum of the $^4$He-C interatomic pair potentials, for which we use both
Lennard-Jones and Yukawa-6 anisotropic potentials. When the lower $^4$He layer
is a C$_{4/3}$ commensurate solid, the upper-layer $^4$He atoms are found to
form a Kagom\'e lattice structure at a Mott insulating density of 0.0706
\AA$^{-2}$, and a commensurate solid at an areal density of 0.0941 \AA$^{-2}$
for both substrate potentials. The correlation between upper- and lower-layer
pseudospins, which were introduced in Ref. [1] for two degenerate
configurations of three $^4$He atoms in a hexagonal cell, depends on the
substrate potential used; With the substrate potential based on the anisotropic
Yukawa-6 pair potentials, the Ising pseudo-spins of both $^4$He layers are
found to be anti-parallel to each other while the parallel and anti-parallel
pseudo-spin alignments between the two $^4$He layers are nearly degenerate with
the Lennard-Jones potentials. This is attributed to the difference in the
interlayer distance, which is $\sim 4$ \AA~ with the Yukawa-6 substrate
potential but as large as $\sim 4.8$ \AA~with the Lennard-Jones potential.
  [1] Y. Kwon, H. Shin, and H. Lee, Phys. Rev. B 88, 201403(R) (2013)


Denoising Criterion for Variational Auto-Encoding Framework

  Denoising autoencoders (DAE) are trained to reconstruct their clean inputs
with noise injected at the input level, while variational autoencoders (VAE)
are trained with noise injected in their stochastic hidden layer, with a
regularizer that encourages this noise injection. In this paper, we show that
injecting noise both in input and in the stochastic hidden layer can be
advantageous and we propose a modified variational lower bound as an improved
objective function in this setup. When input is corrupted, then the standard
VAE lower bound involves marginalizing the encoder conditional distribution
over the input noise, which makes the training criterion intractable. Instead,
we propose a modified training criterion which corresponds to a tractable bound
when input is corrupted. Experimentally, we find that the proposed denoising
variational autoencoder (DVAE) yields better average log-likelihood than the
VAE and the importance weighted autoencoder on the MNIST and Frey Face
datasets.


Generating Factoid Questions With Recurrent Neural Networks: The 30M
  Factoid Question-Answer Corpus

  Over the past decade, large-scale supervised learning corpora have enabled
machine learning researchers to make substantial advances. However, to this
date, there are no large-scale question-answer corpora available. In this paper
we present the 30M Factoid Question-Answer Corpus, an enormous question answer
pair corpus produced by applying a novel neural network architecture on the
knowledge base Freebase to transduce facts into natural language questions. The
produced question answer pairs are evaluated both by human evaluators and using
automatic evaluation metrics, including well-established machine translation
and sentence similarity metrics. Across all evaluation criteria the
question-generation model outperforms the competing template-based baseline.
Furthermore, when presented to human evaluators, the generated questions appear
comparable in quality to real human-generated questions.


Pointing the Unknown Words

  The problem of rare and unknown words is an important issue that can
potentially influence the performance of many NLP systems, including both the
traditional count-based and the deep learning models. We propose a novel way to
deal with the rare and unseen words for the neural network models using
attention. Our model uses two softmax layers in order to predict the next word
in conditional language models: one predicts the location of a word in the
source sentence, and the other predicts a word in the shortlist vocabulary. At
each time-step, the decision of which softmax layer to use choose adaptively
made by an MLP which is conditioned on the context.~We motivate our work from a
psychological evidence that humans naturally have a tendency to point towards
objects in the context or the environment when the name of an object is not
known.~We observe improvements on two tasks, neural machine translation on the
Europarl English to French parallel corpora and text summarization on the
Gigaword dataset using our proposed model.


Hierarchical Memory Networks

  Memory networks are neural networks with an explicit memory component that
can be both read and written to by the network. The memory is often addressed
in a soft way using a softmax function, making end-to-end training with
backpropagation possible. However, this is not computationally scalable for
applications which require the network to read from extremely large memories.
On the other hand, it is well known that hard attention mechanisms based on
reinforcement learning are challenging to train successfully. In this paper, we
explore a form of hierarchical memory network, which can be considered as a
hybrid between hard and soft attention memory networks. The memory is organized
in a hierarchical structure such that reading from it is done with less
computation than soft attention over a flat memory, while also being easier to
train than hard attention over a flat memory. Specifically, we propose to
incorporate Maximum Inner Product Search (MIPS) in the training and inference
procedures for our hierarchical memory network. We explore the use of various
state-of-the art approximate MIPS techniques and report results on
SimpleQuestions, a challenging large scale factoid question answering task.


Hierarchical Multiscale Recurrent Neural Networks

  Learning both hierarchical and temporal representation has been among the
long-standing challenges of recurrent neural networks. Multiscale recurrent
neural networks have been considered as a promising approach to resolve this
issue, yet there has been a lack of empirical evidence showing that this type
of models can actually capture the temporal dependencies by discovering the
latent hierarchical structure of the sequence. In this paper, we propose a
novel multiscale approach, called the hierarchical multiscale recurrent neural
networks, which can capture the latent hierarchical structure in the sequence
by encoding the temporal dependencies with different timescales using a novel
update mechanism. We show some evidence that our proposed multiscale
architecture can discover underlying hierarchical structure in the sequences
without using explicit boundary information. We evaluate our proposed model on
character-level language modelling and handwriting sequence modelling.


Bayesian Model-Agnostic Meta-Learning

  Learning to infer Bayesian posterior from a few-shot dataset is an important
step towards robust meta-learning due to the model uncertainty inherent in the
problem. In this paper, we propose a novel Bayesian model-agnostic
meta-learning method. The proposed method combines scalable gradient-based
meta-learning with nonparametric variational inference in a principled
probabilistic framework. During fast adaptation, the method is capable of
learning complex uncertainty structure beyond a point estimate or a simple
Gaussian approximation. In addition, a robust Bayesian meta-update mechanism
with a new meta-loss prevents overfitting during meta-update. Remaining an
efficient gradient-based meta-learner, the method is also model-agnostic and
simple to implement. Experiment results show the accuracy and robustness of the
proposed method in various tasks: sinusoidal regression, image classification,
active learning, and reinforcement learning.


Learning Single-View 3D Reconstruction with Adversarial Training

  Single-view 3D shape reconstruction is an important but challenging problem,
mainly for two reasons. First, as shape annotation is very expensive to
acquire, current methods rely on synthetic data, in which ground-truth 3D
annotation is easy to obtain. However, this results in domain adaptation
problem when applied to natural images. The second challenge is that it exists
multiple shapes that can explain a given 2D image. In this paper, we propose a
framework to improve over these challenges using adversarial training. On one
hand, we impose domain-confusion between natural and synthetic image
representations to reduce the distribution gap. On the other hand, we impose
the reconstruction to be `realistic' by forcing it to lie on a (learned)
manifold of realistic object shapes. Moreover, our experiments show that these
constraints improve performance by a large margin over a baseline
reconstruction model. We achieve results competitive with the state of the art
using only RGB images and with a much simpler architecture.


Reinforced Imitation in Heterogeneous Action Space

  Imitation learning is an effective alternative approach to learn a policy
when the reward function is sparse. In this paper, we consider a challenging
setting where an agent and an expert use different actions from each other. We
assume that the agent has access to a sparse reward function and state-only
expert observations. We propose a method which gradually balances between the
imitation learning cost and the reinforcement learning objective. In addition,
this method adapts the agent's policy based on either mimicking expert behavior
or maximizing sparse reward. We show, through navigation scenarios, that (i) an
agent is able to efficiently leverage sparse rewards to outperform standard
state-only imitation learning, (ii) it can learn a policy even when its actions
are different from the expert, and (iii) the performance of the agent is not
bounded by that of the expert, due to the optimized usage of sparse rewards.


