Commutative ring objects in pro-categories and generalized Moore spectra

  We develop a rigidity criterion to show that in simplicial model categorieswith a compatible symmetric monoidal structure, operad structures can beautomatically lifted along certain maps. This is applied to obtain anunpublished result of M. J. Hopkins that certain towers of generalized Moorespectra, closely related to the K(n)-local sphere, are E-infinity algebras inthe category of pro-spectra. In addition, we show that Adams resolutionsautomatically satisfy the above rigidity criterion. In order to carry this outwe develop the concept of an operadic model category, whose objects havehomotopically tractable endomorphism operads.

Anomalous wave statistics induced by abrupt depth change

  Laboratory experiments reveal that variations in bottom topography canqualitatively alter the distribution of randomized surface waves. Anormally-distributed, unidirectional wave field becomes highly skewed andnon-Gaussian upon encountering an abrupt depth transition. A short distancedownstream of the transition, wave statistics conform closely to a gammadistribution, affording simple estimates for skewness, kurtosis, and otherstatistical properties. Importantly, the exponential decay of the gammadistribution is much slower than Gaussian, signifying that extreme events occurmore frequently. Under the conditions considered here, the probability of arogue wave can increase by a factor of 50 or more. We also report on thesurface-slope statistics and the spectral content of the waves produced in theexperiments.

Modeling Internet-Scale Policies for Cleaning up Malware

  An emerging consensus among policy makers is that interventions undertaken byInternet Service Providers are the best way to counter the rising incidence ofmalware. However, assessing the suitability of countermeasures at this scale ishard. In this paper, we use an agent-based model, called ASIM, to investigatethe impact of policy interventions at the Autonomous System level of theInternet. For instance, we find that coordinated intervention by the0.2%-biggest ASes is more effective than uncoordinated efforts adopted by 30%of all ASes. Furthermore, countermeasures that block malicious transit trafficappear more effective than ones that block outgoing traffic. The model allowsus to quantify and compare positive externalities created by differentcountermeasures. Our results give an initial indication of the types and levelsof intervention that are most cost-effective at large scale.

Flexible Traversal Through Diverse Brain States Underlies Executive  Function in Normative Neurodevelopment

  Adolescence is marked by rapid development of executive function. Mountingevidence suggests that executive function in adults may be driven by dynamiccontrol of neurophysiological processes. Yet, how these dynamics evolve overadolescence and contribute to cognitive development is unknown. Using a noveldynamic graph approach in which each moment in time is a node and thesimilarity in brain states at two different times is an edge, we identify twoprimary brain states reminiscent of intrinsic and task-evoked systems. Wedemonstrate that time spent in these two states increases over development, asdoes the flexibility with which the brain switches between them. Increasingtime spent in primary states and flexibility among states relates to increasedexecutive performance over adolescence. Indeed, flexibility is increasinglyadvantageous for performance toward early adulthood. These findings demonstratethat brain state dynamics underlie the development of executive function duringthe critical period of adolescence.

Beyond the Blacklist: Modeling Malware Spread and the Effect of  Interventions

  Malware spread among websites and between websites and clients is anincreasing problem. Search engines play an important role in directing users towebsites and are a natural control point for intervening, using mechanisms suchas blacklisting. The paper presents a simple Markov model of malware spreadthrough large populations of websites and studies the effect of twointerventions that might be deployed by a search provider: blacklistinginfected web pages by removing them from search results entirely and ageneralization of blacklisting, called depreferencing, in which a website'sranking is decreased by a fixed percentage each time period the site remainsinfected. We analyze and study the trade-offs between infection exposure andtraffic loss due to false positives (the cost to a website that is incorrectlyblacklisted) for different interventions. As expected, we find thatinterventions are most effective when websites are slow to remove infections.Surprisingly, we also find that low infection or recovery rates can increasetraffic loss due to false positives. Our analysis also shows that heavy-taileddistributions of website popularity, as documented in many studies, leads tohigh sample variance of all measured outcomes. These result implies that itwill be difficult to determine empirically whether certain websiteinterventions are effective, and it suggests that theoretical models such asthe one described in this paper have an important role to play in improving websecurity.

Developmental increases in white matter network controllability support  a growing diversity of brain dynamics

  As the human brain develops, it increasingly supports coordinated control ofneural activity. The mechanism by which white matter evolves to support thiscoordination is not well understood. We use a network representation ofdiffusion imaging data from 882 youth ages 8 to 22 to show that white matterconnectivity becomes increasingly optimized for a diverse range of predicteddynamics in development. Notably, stable controllers in subcortical areas arenegatively related to cognitive performance. Investigating structuralmechanisms supporting these changes, we simulate network evolution with a setof growth rules. We find that all brain networks are structured in a mannerhighly optimized for network control, with distinct control mechanismspredicted in child versus older youth. We demonstrate that our results cannotbe simply explained by changes in network modularity. This work reveals apossible mechanism of human brain development that preferentially optimizesdynamic network control over static network architecture.

Modular Segregation of Structural Brain Networks Supports the  Development of Executive Function in Youth

  The human brain is organized into large-scale functional modules that havebeen shown to evolve in childhood and adolescence. However, it remains unknownwhether structural brain networks are similarly refined during development,potentially allowing for improvements in executive function. In a sample of 882participants (ages 8-22) who underwent diffusion imaging as part of thePhiladelphia Neurodevelopmental Cohort, we demonstrate that structural networkmodules become more segregated with age, with weaker connections betweenmodules and stronger connections within modules. Evolving modular topologyfacilitated network integration, driven by age-related strengthening of hubedges that were present both within and between modules. Critically, bothmodular segregation and network integration were associated with enhancedexecutive performance, and mediated the improvement of executive functioningwith age. Together, results delineate a process of structural networkmaturation that supports executive function in youth.

A search for rapidly pulsating hot subdwarf stars in the GALEX survey

  NASA's Galaxy Evolution Explorer (GALEX) provided near- and far-UVobservations for approximately 77 percent of the sky over a ten-year period;however, the data reduction pipeline initially only released single NUV and FUVimages to the community. The recently released Python module gPhoton changesthis, allowing calibrated time-series aperture photometry to be extractedeasily from the raw GALEX data set. Here we use gPhoton to generate lightcurves for all hot subdwarf B (sdB) stars that were observed by GALEX, with theintention of identifying short-period, p-mode pulsations. We find that thespacecraft's short visit durations, uneven gaps between visits, and ditherpattern make the detection of hot subdwarf pulsations difficult. Nonetheless,we detect UV variations in four previously known pulsating targets and reporttheir UV pulsation amplitudes and frequencies. Additionally, we find thatseveral other sdB targets not previously known to vary show promising signalsin their periodograms. Using optical follow-up photometry with the SkynetRobotic Telescope Network, we confirm p-mode pulsations in one of thesetargets, LAMOST J082517.99+113106.3, and report it as the most recent additionto the sdBVr class of variable stars.

New Pulse Timing Measurements of the sdBV Star CS 1246

  CS 1246 is a hot subdwarf B star discovered in 2009 to exhibit a single,large-amplitude radial pulsation. An O-C diagram constructed from this moderevealed reflex motion due to the presence of a low-mass M dwarf, as well as along-term trend consistent with a decrease in the pulsational period. Theorbital reflex motion was later confirmed with radial velocity measurements.Using eight years of data collected with the Skynet Robotic Telescope Network,we show that the pulsation amplitude of CS 1246 is decaying nonlinearly. Wealso present an updated O-C diagram, which might now indicate a positive $\dotP$ and a new $2.09 \pm 0.05$ yr oscillation consistent with orbital reflexmotion of the entire inner sdB+dM binary, possibly due to the gravitationalinfluence of a circumbinary planet with minimum mass $m\sin i = 3.3 \, \pm \,^{2.1}_{1.2}$ $M_{\rm Jup}$. However, unlike the presence of the M dwarf, wehesitate to claim this object as a definitive detection since intrinsicvariability of the pulsation phase could theoretically produce a similareffect.

Context-dependent architecture of brain state dynamics is explained by  white matter connectivity and theories of network control

  A diverse white matter network and finely tuned neuronal membrane propertiesallow the brain to transition seamlessly between cognitive states. However, itremains unclear how static structural connections guide the temporalprogression of large-scale brain activity patterns in different cogni- tivestates. Here, we deploy an unsupervised machine learning algorithm to definebrain states as time point level activity patterns from functional magneticresonance imaging data acquired dur- ing passive visual fixation (rest) and ann-back working memory task. We find that brain states are composed ofinterdigitated functional networks and exhibit context-dependent dynamics.Using diffusion-weighted imaging acquired from the same subjects, we show thatstructural connectivity constrains the temporal progression of brain states. Wealso combine tools from network control theory with geometrically conservativenull models to demonstrate that brains are wired to sup- port states of highactivity in default mode areas, while requiring relatively low energy. Finally,we show that brain state dynamics change throughout development and explainworking mem- ory performance. Overall, these results elucidate the structuralunderpinnings of cognitively and developmentally relevant spatiotemporal braindynamics.

Unifying Modular and Core-Periphery Structure in Functional Brain  Networks over Development

  At rest, human brain functional networks display striking modulararchitecture in which coherent clusters of brain regions are activated. Themodular account of brain function is pervasive, reliable, and reproducible.Yet, a complementary perspective posits a core-periphery or rich-club accountof brain function, where hubs are densely interconnected with one another,allowing for integrative processing. Unifying these two perspectives hasremained difficult due to the fact that the methodological tools to identifymodules are entirely distinct from the methodological tools to identifycore-periphery structure. Here we leverage a recently-developed model-basedapproach -- the weighted stochastic block model -- that simultaneously uncoversmodular and core-periphery structure, and we apply it to fMRI data acquired atrest in 872 youth of the Philadelphia Neurodevelopmental Cohort. We demonstratethat functional brain networks display rich meso-scale organization beyond thatsought by modularity maximization techniques. Moreover, we show that thismeso-scale organization changes appreciably over the course ofneurodevelopment, and that individual differences in this organization predictindividual differences in cognition more accurately than module organizationalone. Broadly, our study provides a unified assessment of modular andcore-periphery structure in functional brain networks, providing novel insightsinto their development and implications for behavior.

New Horizons: Anticipated Scientific Investigations at the Pluto System

  The New Horizons spacecraft will achieve a wide range of measurementobjectives at the Pluto system, including color and panchromatic maps,1.25-2.50 micron spectral images for studying surface compositions, andmeasurements of Pluto's atmosphere (temperatures, composition, hazes, and theescape rate). Additional measurement objectives include topography, surfacetemperatures, and the solar wind interaction. The fulfillment of thesemeasurement objectives will broaden our understanding of the Pluto system, suchas the origin of the Pluto system, the processes operating on the surface, thevolatile transport cycle, and the energetics and chemistry of the atmosphere.The mission, payload, and strawman observing sequences have been designed toacheive the NASA-specified measurement objectives and maximize the sciencereturn. The planned observations at the Pluto system will extend our knowledgeof other objects formed by giant impact (such as the Earth-moon), other objectsformed in the outer solar system (such as comets and other icy dwarf planets),other bodies with surfaces in vapor-pressure equilibrium (such as Triton andMars), and other bodies with N2:CH4 atmospheres (such as Titan, Triton, and theearly Earth).

Herding Vulnerable Cats: A Statistical Approach to Disentangle Joint  Responsibility for Web Security in Shared Hosting

  Hosting providers play a key role in fighting web compromise, but theirability to prevent abuse is constrained by the security practices of their owncustomers. {\em Shared} hosting, offers a unique perspective since customersoperate under restricted privileges and providers retain more control overconfigurations. We present the first empirical analysis of the distribution ofweb security features and software patching practices in shared hostingproviders, the influence of providers on these security practices, and theirimpact on web compromise rates. We construct provider-level features on theglobal market for shared hosting -- containing 1,259 providers -- by gatheringindicators from 442,684 domains. Exploratory factor analysis of 15 indicatorsidentifies four main latent factors that capture security efforts: contentsecurity, webmaster security, web infrastructure security and web applicationsecurity. We confirm, via a fixed-effect regression model, that providers exertsignificant influence over the latter two factors, which are both related tothe software stack in their hosting environment. Finally, by means of GLMregression analysis of these factors on phishing and malware abuse, we showthat the four security and software patching factors explain between 10\% and19\% of the variance in abuse at providers, after controlling for size. Forweb-application security for instance, we found that when a provider moves fromthe bottom 10\% to the best-performing 10\%, it would experience 4 times fewerphishing incidents. We show that providers have influence over patchlevels--even higher in the stack, where CMSes can run as client-sidesoftware--and that this influence is tied to a substantial reduction in abuselevels.

Sex differences in network controllability as a predictor of executive  function in youth

  Executive function emerges late in development and displays differentdevelopmental trends in males and females. Sex differences in executivefunction in youth have been linked to vulnerability to psychopathology as wellas to behaviors that impinge on health. Yet, the neurobiological basis of thesedifferences is not well understood. Here we test the hypothesis that sexdifferences in executive function in youth stem from sex differences in thecontrollability of structural brain networks as they rewire over development.Combining methods from network neuroscience and network control theory, wecharacterize the network control properties of structural brain networksestimated from diffusion imaging data acquired in males and females in a sampleof 882 youth aged 8-22 years. We summarize the control properties of thesenetworks by estimating average and modal controllability, two statistics thatprobe the ease with which brain areas can drive the network towards easy-versus difficult-to-reach states. We find that females have higher modalcontrollability in frontal, parietal, and subcortical regions while males havehigher average controllability in frontal and subcortical regions. Furthermore,average controllability values in the medial frontal cortex and subcortex, bothhigher in males, are negatively related to executive function. Finally, we findthat average controllability predicts sex-dependent individual differences inactivation during an n-back working memory task. Taken together, our findingssupport the notion that sex differences in the controllability of structuralbrain networks can partially explain sex differences in executive function.Controllability of structural brain networks also predicts features oftask-relevant activation, suggesting the potential for controllability torepresent context-specific constraints on network state more generally.

Influence of Neighborhood SES on Functional Brain Network Development

  Higher socioeconomic status (SES) in childhood is associated with increasedcognitive abilities, higher academic achievement, and decreased incidence ofmental illness later in development. Accumulating evidence suggests that theseeffects may be due to changes in brain development induced by environmentalfactors. While prior work has mapped the associations between neighborhood SESand brain structure, little is known about the relationship between SES andintrinsic neural dynamics. Here, we capitalize upon a large community-basedsample (Philadelphia Neurodevelopmental Cohort, ages 8-22 years, n=1012) toexamine developmental changes in functional brain network topology as estimatedfrom resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging data. Wequantitatively characterize this topology using a local measure of networksegregation known as the clustering coefficient, and find that it accounts fora greater degree of SES-associated variance than meso-scale segregationcaptured by modularity. While whole-brain clustering increased with age,high-SES youth displayed faster increases in clustering than low-SES youth, andthis effect was most pronounced for regions in the limbic, somatomotor, andventral attention systems. The effect of SES on developmental increases inclustering was strongest for connections of intermediate physical length,consistent with faster decreases in local connectivity in these regions inlow-SES youth, and tracked changes in BOLD signal complexity in the form ofregional homogeneity. Our findings suggest that neighborhood SES mayfundamentally alter intrinsic patterns of inter-regional interactions in thehuman brain in a manner that is consistent with greater segregation ofinformation processing in late childhood and adolescence.

Reorientation of Sputnik Planitia implies a Subsurface Ocean on Pluto

  The deep nitrogen-covered Sputnik Planitia (SP; informal name) basin on Plutois located very close to the longitude of Pluto's tidal axis[1] and may be animpact feature [2], by analogy with other large basins in the solarsystem[3,4]. Reorientation[5-7] due to tidal and rotational torques can explainSP's location, but requires it to be a positive gravity anomaly[7], despite itsnegative topography. Here we argue that if SP formed via impact and if Plutopossesses a subsurface ocean, a positive gravity anomaly would naturally resultbecause of shell thinning and ocean uplift, followed by later modest N2deposition. Without a subsurface ocean a positive gravity anomaly requires animplausibly thick N2 layer (greater than 40 km). A rigid, conductive ice shellis required to prolong such an ocean's lifetime to the present day[8] andmaintain ocean uplift. Because N2 deposition is latitude-dependent[9], nitrogenloading and reorientation may have exhibited complex feedbacks[7].

Life Beyond the Solar System: Remotely Detectable Biosignatures

  For the first time in human history, we will soon be able to apply thescientific method to the question "Are We Alone?" The rapid advance ofexoplanet discovery, planetary systems science, and telescope technology willsoon allow scientists to search for life beyond our Solar System through directobservation of extrasolar planets. This endeavor will occur alongside searchesfor habitable environments and signs of life within our Solar System. While thesearches are thematically related and will inform each other, they will requireseparate observational techniques. The search for life on exoplanets holdspotential through the great diversity of worlds to be explored beyond our SolarSystem. However, there are also unique challenges related to the relativelylimited data this search will obtain on any individual world. This white paperreviews the scientific community's ability to use data from future telescopesto search for life on exoplanets. This material summarizes products from theExoplanet Biosignatures Workshop Without Walls (EBWWW). The EBWWW wasconstituted by a series of online and in person activities, with participationfrom the international exoplanet and astrobiology communities, to assess stateof the science and future research needs for the remote detection of life onplanets outside our Solar System.

Convection in a volatile nitrogen-ice-rich layer drives Pluto's  geological vigor

  The vast, deep, volatile-ice-filled basin informally named Sputnik Planum iscentral to Pluto's geological activity[1,2]. Composed of molecular nitrogen,methane, and carbon monoxide ices[3], but dominated by N2-ice, this ice layeris organized into cells or polygons, typically ~10-40 km across, that resemblethe surface manifestation of solid state convection[1,2]. Here we report, basedon available rheological measurements[4], that solid layers of N2 iceapproximately greater than 1 km thick should convect for estimated present-dayheat flow conditions on Pluto. More importantly, we show numerically thatconvective overturn in a several-km-thick layer of solid nitrogen can explainthe great lateral width of the cells. The temperature dependence of N2-iceviscosity implies that the SP ice layer convects in the so-called sluggish lidregime[5], a unique convective mode heretofore not definitively observed in theSolar System. Average surface horizontal velocities of a few cm/yr implysurface transport or renewal times of ~500,000 years, well under the 10 Myrupper limit crater retention age for Sputnik Planum[2]. Similar convectivesurface renewal may also occur on other dwarf planets in the Kuiper belt, whichmay help explain the high albedos of some of them.

The Pluto system: Initial results from its exploration by New Horizons

  The Pluto system was recently explored by NASA's New Horizons spacecraft,making closest approach on 14 July 2015. Pluto's surface displays diverselandforms, terrain ages, albedos, colors, and composition gradients. Evidenceis found for a water-ice crust, geologically young surface units, surface iceconvection, wind streaks, volatile transport, and glacial flow. Pluto'satmosphere is highly extended, with trace hydrocarbons, a global haze layer,and a surface pressure near 10 microbars. Pluto's diverse surface geology andlong-term activity raise fundamental questions about how small planets remainactive many billions of years after formation. Pluto's large moon Charondisplays tectonics and evidence for a heterogeneous crustal composition, itsnorth pole displays puzzling dark terrain. Small satellites Hydra and Nix havehigher albedos than expected.

The extreme HBL behaviour of Markarian 501 during 2012

  A multiwavelength campaign was organized to take place between March and Julyof 2012. Excellent temporal coverage was obtained with more than 25instruments, including the MAGIC, FACT and VERITAS Cherenkov telescopes, theinstruments on board the Swift and Fermi spacecraft, and the telescopesoperated by the GASP-WEBT collaboration.  Mrk 501 showed a very high energy (VHE) gamma-ray flux above 0.2 TeV of$\sim$0.5 times the Crab Nebula flux (CU) for most of the campaign. The highestactivity occurred on 2012 June 9, when the VHE flux was $\sim$3 CU, and thepeak of the high-energy spectral component was found to be at $\sim$2 TeV. Thisstudy reports very hard X-ray spectra, and the hardest VHE spectra measured todate for Mrk 501. The fractional variability was found to increase with energy,with the highest variability occurring at VHE, and a significant correlationbetween the X-ray and VHE bands.  The unprecedentedly hard X-ray and VHE spectra measured imply that their low-and high-energy components peaked above 5 keV and 0.5 TeV, respectively, duringa large fraction of the observing campaign, and hence that Mrk 501 behaved likean extreme high-frequency- peaked blazar (EHBL) throughout the 2012 observingseason. This suggests that being an EHBL may not be a permanent characteristicof a blazar, but rather a state which may change over time. The one-zonesynchrotron self-Compton (SSC) scenario can successfully describe the segmentsof the SED where most energy is emitted, with a significant correlation betweenthe electron energy density and the VHE gamma-ray activity, suggesting thatmost of the variability may be explained by the injection of high-energyelectrons. The one-zone SSC scenario used reproduces the behaviour seen betweenthe measured X-ray and VHE gamma-ray fluxes, and predicts that the correlationbecomes stronger with increasing energy of the X-rays.

The Long-Baseline Neutrino Experiment: Exploring Fundamental Symmetries  of the Universe

  The preponderance of matter over antimatter in the early Universe, thedynamics of the supernova bursts that produced the heavy elements necessary forlife and whether protons eventually decay --- these mysteries at the forefrontof particle physics and astrophysics are key to understanding the earlyevolution of our Universe, its current state and its eventual fate. TheLong-Baseline Neutrino Experiment (LBNE) represents an extensively developedplan for a world-class experiment dedicated to addressing these questions. LBNEis conceived around three central components: (1) a new, high-intensityneutrino source generated from a megawatt-class proton accelerator at FermiNational Accelerator Laboratory, (2) a near neutrino detector just downstreamof the source, and (3) a massive liquid argon time-projection chamber deployedas a far detector deep underground at the Sanford Underground ResearchFacility. This facility, located at the site of the former Homestake Mine inLead, South Dakota, is approximately 1,300 km from the neutrino source atFermilab -- a distance (baseline) that delivers optimal sensitivity to neutrinocharge-parity symmetry violation and mass ordering effects. This ambitious yetcost-effective design incorporates scalability and flexibility and canaccommodate a variety of upgrades and contributions. With its exceptionalcombination of experimental configuration, technical capabilities, andpotential for transformative discoveries, LBNE promises to be a vital facilityfor the field of particle physics worldwide, providing physicists from aroundthe globe with opportunities to collaborate in a twenty to thirty year programof exciting science. In this document we provide a comprehensive overview ofLBNE's scientific objectives, its place in the landscape of neutrino physicsworldwide, the technologies it will incorporate and the capabilities it willpossess.

