Generalized London free energy for high-$T_c$ vortex lattices

  We generalize the London free energy to include four-fold anisotropies which
could arise from d-wave pairing or other sources in a tetragonal material. We
use this simple model to study vortex lattice structure and discuss neutron
scattering, STM, Bitter decoration and $\mu$SR experiments.


White Dwarfs in Globular Clusters: HST Observations of M4

  Using WFPC2 on the Hubble Space Telescope, we have isolated a sample of 258
white dwarfs (WDs) in the Galactic globular cluster M4. Fields at three radial
distances from the cluster center were observed and sizeable WD populations
were found in all three. The location of these WDs in the color-magnitude
diagram, their mean mass of 0.51($ \pm 0.03$)M$_{\odot}$, and their luminosity
function confirm basic tenets of stellar evolution theory and support the
results from current WD cooling theory. The WDs are used to extend the cluster
main-sequence mass function upward to stars that have already completed their
nuclear evolution. The WD/red dwarf binary frequency in M4 is investigated and
found to be at most a few percent of all the main-sequence stars. The most
ancient WDs found are about 9 Gyr old, a level which is set solely by the
photometric limits of our data. Even though this is less than the age of M4, we
discuss how these cooling WDs can eventually be used to check the turnoff ages
of globular clusters and hence constrain the age of the Universe.


Theory of the field-induced gap in $S=1/2$ antiferromagnetic chains

  In a recent neutron-scattering experiment on the quasi-one-dimensional
$S=1/2$ antiferromagnet Cu Benzoate, a gap was induced by an applied magnetic
field. We argue that the primary mechanism of the gap formation is an effective
staggered field due to both the alternating $g$-tensor and the
Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction. We explain the dependence of the gap on the
applied field, as well as identify several peaks in the structure factor
$S(q,\omega)$.


Solving the Conformal Bootstrap: Four-Fermion Interactions at 2<d<4

  We formulate the conformal bootstrap approach to four--fermion theory at its
strong coupling fixed point in dimensions $2<d<4$. We present a solution of the
bootstrap equations in the five--vertex approximation. We show that the
bootstrap approach gives a particularly simple way to obtain next to leading
order corrections to critical exponents in the large $N$ expansion and present
the values of the anomalous dimensions of the fermion field $\psi$ and the
composite $\bar\psi\psi$ to order $1/N^2$.


Defect Lines in the Ising Model and Boundary States on Orbifolds

  Critical phenomena in the two-dimensional Ising model with a defect line are
studied using boundary conformal field theory on the $c=1$ orbifold. Novel
features of the boundary states arising from the orbifold structure, including
continuously varying boundary critical exponents, are elucidated. New features
of the Ising defect problem are obtained including a novel universality class
of defect lines and the universal boundary to bulk crossover of the spin
correlation function.


Crystalline electron pairs

  This is a nontechnical Perspective Commentary on the recent developments in
cuprate STM and their ramifications for the theories of the pseudogap state,
focusing on the paper by Hanaguri et al. [Nature 430, 1001 (2004)].


HepToX: Heterogeneous Peer to Peer XML Databases

  We study a collection of heterogeneous XML databases maintaining similar and
related information, exchanging data via a peer to peer overlay network. In
this setting, a mediated global schema is unrealistic. Yet, users/applications
wish to query the databases via one peer using its schema. We have recently
developed HepToX, a P2P Heterogeneous XML database system. A key idea is that
whenever a peer enters the system, it establishes an acquaintance with a small
number of peer databases, possibly with different schema. The peer
administrator provides correspondences between the local schema and the
acquaintance schema using an informal and intuitive notation of arrows and
boxes. We develop a novel algorithm that infers a set of precise mapping rules
between the schemas from these visual annotations. We pin down a semantics of
query translation given such mapping rules, and present a novel query
translation algorithm for a simple but expressive fragment of XQuery, that
employs the mapping rules in either direction. We show the translation
algorithm is correct. Finally, we demonstrate the utility and scalability of
our ideas and algorithms with a detailed set of experiments on top of the
Emulab, a large scale P2P network emulation testbed.


A short simplicial h-vector and the upper bound theorem

  We verify the Upper Bound Conjecture (UBC) for a class of odd-dimensional
simplicial complexes that in particular includes all Eulerian simplicial
complexes with isolated singularities. The proof relies on a new invariant of
simplicial complexes -- a short simplicial h-vector.


On the Radial Distribution of White Dwarfs in the Globular Cluster NGC
  6397

  We have examined the radial distribution of white dwarfs over a single
HST/ACS field in the nearby globular cluster NGC 6397. In relaxed populations,
such as in a globular cluster, stellar velocity dispersion, and hence radial
distribution, is directly dependent on stellar masses. The progenitors of very
young cluster white dwarfs had a mass of ~0.8 solar masses, while the white
dwarfs themselves have a mass of ~0.5 solar masses. We thus expect young white
dwarfs to have a concentrated radial distribution (like that of their
progenitors) that becomes more extended over several relaxation times to mimic
that of ~0.5 solar mass main-sequence stars. However, we observe young white
dwarfs to have a significantly extended radial distribution compared to both
the most massive main sequence stars in the cluster and also to old white
dwarfs.


Vortices, zero modes and fractionalization in bilayer-graphene exciton
  condensate

  A real-space formulation is given for the recently discussed exciton
condensate in a symmetrically biased graphene bilayer. We show that in the
continuum limit an oddly-quantized vortex in this condensate binds exactly one
zero mode per valley index of the bilayer. In the full lattice model the zero
modes are split slightly due to intervalley mixing. We support these results by
an exact numerical diagonalization of the lattice Hamiltonian. We also discuss
the effect of the zero modes on the charge content of these vortices and deduce
some of their interesting properties.


The SCUBA HAlf Degree Extragalactic Survey (SHADES) -- VI. 350 micron
  mapping of submillimetre galaxies

  A follow-up survey using the Submillimetre High-Angular Resolution Camera
(SHARC-II) at 350 microns has been carried out to map the regions around
several 850 micron-selected sources from the Submillimetre HAlf Degree
Extragalactic Survey (SHADES). These observations probe the infrared
luminosities and hence star-formation rates in the largest existing, most
robust sample of submillimetre galaxies (SMGs). We measure 350 micron flux
densities for 24 850 micron sources, seven of which are detected at >2.5-sigma
within a 10 arcsec search radius of the 850 micron positions. When results from
the literature are included the total number of 350 micron flux density
constraints of SHADES SMGs is 31, with 15 detections. We fit a modified
blackbody to the far-infrared (FIR) photometry of each SMG, and confirm that
typical SMGs are dust-rich (Mdust~9x10^8 Msun), luminous (Lfir~2x10^12 Lsun),
star-forming galaxies with intrinsic dust temperatures of ~35 K and
star-formation rates of ~400 Msun/yr. We have measured the temperature
distribution of SMGs and find that the underlying distribution is slightly
broader than implied by the error bars, and that most SMGs are at 28 K with a
few hotter. We also place new constraints on the 350 micron source counts,
N350(>25mJy)~200-500 deg^-2.


Age Gradient and the Second Parameter Problem in the Galactic Halo

  We establish a framework for determing absolute ages of Galactic globular
clusters and then use these ages to investigate the age-metallicity and
age-Galactocentric distance relations for the 36 clusters with the most
reliable age data. The clusters span Galactocentric distances from 4 through
100 kpc and cover a metallicity range from $[Fe/H] = -0.6$ to $-2.3$. Adopting
currently plausible choices for the relation between cluster metallicity and
horizontal-branch luminosity, and alpha-enhancement ratios, we find that the
majority of the globular clusters form an age distribution with a dispersion
$\sigma(t)$ about $10^9$ years, and a total age spread smaller than 4 Gyr.
Clusters in the lowest metallicity group ($[Fe/H] < -1.8$) appear to be the
same age to well within 1 Gyr at all locations in the Milky Way halo,
suggesting that star formation began throughout the halo nearly simultaneously
in its earliest stages. We find no statistically significant correlation
between mean cluster age and Galactocentric distance (no age gradient) from 4
to 100 kpc. The correlation between cluster age and horizontal-branch type
suggests that causes in addition to metallicity and age are required to
understand the distribution of stars along the horizontal branches in globular
cluster color-magnitude diagrams.


HST Observations of the White Dwarf Cooling Sequence of M4

  We investigate in detail the white dwarf cooling sequence of the globular
cluster Messier 4. In particular we study the influence of various systematic
uncertainties, both observational and theoretical, on the determination of the
cluster age from the white dwarf cooling sequence. These include uncertainties
in the distance to the cluster and the extinction along the line of sight, as
well as the white dwarf mass, envelope and core compositions and the white
dwarf --main sequence mass relation. We find that fitting to the full
two-dimensional colour-magnitude diagram offers a more robust method for age
determination than the traditional method of fitting the one-dimensional white
dwarf luminosity function.
  After taking into account the various uncertainties, we find a best fit age
of 12.1 Gyr, with a 95% lower limit of 10.3 Gyr. We also perform fits using two
other sets of cooling models from the literature. The models of Chabrier et al
(2000) yield an encouragingly similar result, although the models of Salaris et
al (2000) do not provide as good a fit. Our results support our previous
determination of a delay between the formation of the Galactic halo and the
onset of star formation in the Galactic disk.


Concerning the White Dwarf Cooling Age of M4: A Response to the Paper by
  De Marchi et al. on "A Different Interpretation of Recent HST Observations"

  We respond to the paper by De Marchi, Paresce, Straniero and Moroni (2003) on
the white dwarf cooling age of M4. The authors question the data analysis and
interpretation that led to the conclusions in Hansen et al. (2002). In their
paper, De Marchi et al. are unable to obtain photometry as deep as ours from
the same data set and therefore assert that only a lower limit to the white
dwarf cooling age for this cluster of approximately 9 Gyr can be obtained.
  In this short contribution we show that shortcomings in the data analysis and
reduction techniques of De Marchi et al. are responsible for their inability to
reach the photometry limits that our study reports. In a forthcoming paper in
which the complete techniques for age determination with white dwarfs are laid
out, we demonstrate that their method of fitting the luminosity function gives
a spuriously low white dwarf cooling age.


Creation and manipulation of anyons in a layered superconductor-2DEG
  system

  We describe and analyze in detail our recent theoretical proposal for the
realization and manipulation of anyons in a weakly interacting system
consisting of a two-dimensional electron gas in the integer quantum Hall regime
adjacent to a type-II superconducting film with an artificial array of pinning
sites. The anyon is realized in response to a defect in the pinned vortex
lattice and carries a charge \pm e/2 and a statistical angle pi/4. We establish
this result, both analytically and numerically, in three complementary
approaches: (i) a continuum model of two-dimensional electrons in the vortex
lattice of the superconducting film; (ii) a minimal tight-binding lattice model
that captures the essential features of the system; and (iii) an effective
theory of the superconducting vortex lattice superposed on the integer quantum
Hall state. We propose a novel method to measure the fractional charge directly
in a bulk transport experiment and an all-electric setup for an ``anyon
shuttle'' implementing the braiding operations. We briefly discuss conditions
for fabricating the system in the lab and its potential applications in quantum
information processing with non-Abelian anyons.


Comparing the White Dwarf Cooling Sequences in 47 Tuc and NGC 6397

  Using deep Hubble Space Telescope imaging, color-magnitude diagrams are
constructed for the globular clusters 47 Tuc and NGC 6397. As expected, because
of its lower metal abundance, the main sequence of NGC 6397 lies well to the
blue of that of 47 Tuc. A comparison of the white dwarf cooling sequences of
the two clusters, however, demonstrates that these sequences are
indistinguishable over most of their loci - a consequence of the settling out
of heavy elements in the dense white dwarf atmosphere and the near equality of
their masses. Lower quality data on M4 continues this trend to a third cluster
whose metallicity is intermediate between these two. While the path of the
white dwarfs in the color-magnitude diagram is nearly identical in 47 Tuc and
NGC 6397, the numbers of white dwarfs along the path are not. This results from
the relatively rapid relaxation in NGC 6397 compared to 47 Tuc and provides a
cautionary note that simply counting objects in star clusters in random
locations as a method of testing stellar evolutionary theory is likely
dangerous unless dynamical considerations are included.


Future Cosmic Microwave Background Experiments

  We summarise some aspects of experiments currently being built or planned,
and indulge in wild speculation about possibilities on the more distant
horizon.


The Massive Binary Pulsar J1740-3052

  The young pulsar J1740-3052 is in an 8-month orbit with a companion of at
least 11 solar masses. We present multifrequency GBT and Parkes timing
observations, and discuss implications for the nature of the companion.


High-Resolution Observations of PSR B1828-11

  We present high-time-resolution observations of the young precessing pulsar
B1828-11, which yield clues to the true beam shape and the fundamental
precession period.


HST Observations of the Main Sequence of M4

  This paper presents new results from a photometric study of the main-sequence
stars in M4, the closest globular cluster to the sun. Multi-field, multi-epoch
observations at approximately 1, 2, and 6 core-radii were obtained with the
WFPC2 camera on the HST. The multi-epoch observations allowed us to clean the
data on the basis of proper motion. In all the fields the cluster main sequence
can be traced to at least V = 27.0 but there remains a trail of stars to the
limit of the data near V = 30 in the deepest outer field. There is no evidence
that we have reached the end of the hydrogen burning main sequence in any of
our fields, however, there is some indication that very few stars remain to be
detected in the deepest data.
  The scatter about the cluster main sequence yields a surprisingly small and
variable binary fraction; f_b = 2% in the inner parts of the cluster falling to
the 1% range outside. For the currently visible main sequence stars, the
cluster mass function is very flat (alpha =0.1) in the outer field and flattens
further in the inner fields suggesting well developed mass segregation. The
observed variation in the mass function is broadly consistent with isotropic,
multi-mass Michie-King models. Because we have a large sample of white dwarfs
in the outer field we are able to show that the cluster IMF above 0.8Msun was
considerably steeper than the present day mass function for low mass stars.
  Two appendicies are included in this contribution; a detailed discussion of
the techniques used to reduce the data and a direct comparison between the
cluster stars and those belonging to the inner spheroid of the Galaxy yielding
a Galactocentric distance of 7.5+/-0.6 kpc.


Arecibo Measurements of Pulsar--White Dwarf Binaries: Evidence for Heavy
  Neutron Stars

  We summarize constraints on neutron star masses from ongoing timing
observations of pulsar-white dwarf binaries at Arecibo. The trend is toward
pulsar masses larger than the canonical value of 1.35 solar masses.


On the Observability of Meso- and Macro-scopic Quantum Coherence of
  Domain Walls in Magnetic Insulators

  Results are presented of a numerical calculation of the tunneling gap for a
domain wall moving in the double well potential of a pair of voids in a
magnetic insulator. Both symmetric and asymmetric double well potentials are
considered. It is found that, even in the absence of dissipation, the prospects
for observing quantum coherence on a meso- or macro-scopic scale appears
unlikely.


Is there an exponentially large Kondo screening cloud ?

  We make a precise scaling conjecture, based on renormalization group ideas,
regarding the screening cloud around an impurity spin in the Kondo effect and
test it numerically using the Density Matrix Renormalization Group method.


Exact Correlation Amplitude for the S=1/2 Heisenberg Antiferromagnetic
  Chain

  The exact amplitude for the asymptotic correlation function in the S=1/2
Heisenberg antiferromagnetic chain is determined: <S^a_0 S^b_r> goes to (-1)^r
delta^{ab}(ln r)^{1/2}/[(2 pi)^{3/2}r]. The behaviour of the correlation
functions for small xxz anisotropy and the form of finite-size corrections to
the correlation function are also analysed.


Gauge invariant fermion propagator in QED3

  In a recent preprint [cond-mat/0204040] Khveshchenko questioned the validity
of our computation of the gauge invariant fermion propagator in QED3, which we
employed as an effective theory of high-T_c cuprate superconductors
[cond-mat/0203333]. We take this opportunity to further clarify our procedure
and to show that criticism voiced in the above preprint is unwarranted.


Cyclic Lattice Feshbach Resonances

  In this Letter we illustrate the possible cyclic fermion pairing states
across Feshbach resonances in optical lattices. In cyclic fermion pairing, the
pairing amplitude exhibits an oscillatory behavior as the detuning varies. We
estimate the quasi-particle gaps in different regimes of the resonances.


$2d$ gravity and matrix models. I. $2d$ gravity

  Some approaches to $2d$ gravity developed for the last years are reviewed.
They are physical (Liouville) gravity, topological theories and matrix models.
A special attention is paid to matrix models and their interrelations with
different approaches. Almost all technical details are omitted, but examples
are presented.


Exchange symmetry and global entanglement and full separability

  Ichikawa et al. [Phys. Rev. A 78, 052105 (2008)] showed that exchange
symmetry gives rise to simple characterization of whether multipartite pure
quantum states being either globally entangled or fully separable. In this
Brief Report, we provide a simple alternative approach and some extension to
their conclusions.


Recent CMS Results on Forward and Small-x QCD Physics

  Recent CMS results on Forward and Small-x QCD Physics are presented. Those
include the measurement of the Underlying Event activity and the study of jet
production at large rapidity separation.


Ubc/Laval 2.7-Meter Liquid Mirror Telescope

  We report the successful development and operation of a large astronomical
liquid-mirror telescope. Employing a rotating 2.7-meter diameter mirror with a
surface of liquid mercury, the telescope images a half-degree diameter field
centered at the zenith. Located near Vancouver, British Columbia, it is
equipped with a low-noise 2048x2048-pixel CCD detector, operating in TDI mode,
which produces continuous imaging of a 20 arcminute-widestrip of sky with 2
minute integration time. Images with FWHM of 2 arcseconds or less are regularly
obtained. This image quality is limited only by atmospheric seeing and
star-trail curvature. The telescope is equipped with a series of narrow-band
filters, designed to produce 40-point spectral energy distributions from 0.4 to
1.0 microns of all detected objects. These will allow classification and
redshift estimation of approximately 25,000 galaxies and 1,000 quasars to a
limiting magnitude of R~21.


First results from the UBC etch-alignment mosaic CCD

  First imaging results are obtained with a new CCD mosaic prototype (3K x 3k,
15 \mu m pixels). The CCDs are aligned using an etched socket alignment
technique. Three different measurements of the alignment are made using star
images, test p attern images, and microscope analysis. The CCDs have an angular
misalignement o f less than 30 ppm. The composite device is flat to within \pm
3 \mu m, with rows/columns oriented to within 20 ppm. The use of an existing
technology with built in precision reduces many of the difficulties and
expenses typically encountered with mosaic detector construction. A new camera
being built for the UBC liquid mirror telescope is al so described.


Topological Statistics and the LMT Galaxy Redshift Survey

  The results of numerical simulations are presented which demonstrate that
liquid mirror telescope galaxy redshift surveys such as the current UBC-NASA
Multi-Narrowband Survey and the future LZT Survey have the potential of
discriminating between the predictions of different theories of structure
formation. Most of the currently studied theories of structure formation
predict a scale-invariant spectrum of primordial perturbations. Therefore, to
distinguish between the predictions of the various models, we make use of
statistics which are sensitive to non-Gaussian phases, such as the counts in
cell statistics, N-galaxy probability functions and Minkowski functionals. It
is shown that already the current UBC-NASA survey can clearly differentiate
between the predictions of some topological defect theories and those of
inflationary Universe models with Gaussian phases.


Isochrones and Luminosity Functions for Old White Dwarfs

  Using a new grid of models of cooling white dwarfs, we calculate isochrones
and luminosity functions in the Johnson-Kron/Cousins and HST filter sets for
systems containing old white dwarfs. These new models incorporate a non-grey
atmosphere which is necessary to properly describe the effects of molecular
opacity at the cool temperatures of old white dwarfs. The various functions
calculated and extensively tabulated and plotted are meant to be as utilitarian
as possible for observers so all results are listed in quantities that
observers will obtain. The tables and plots developed should eventually prove
critical in interpreting the results of HST's Advanced Camera observations of
the oldest white dwarfs in nearby globular clusters, in understanding the
results of searches for old white dwarfs in the Galactic halo, and in
determining ages for star clusters of all ages using white dwarfs. As a
practical application we demonstrate the use of these results by deriving the
white dwarf cooling age of the old Galactic cluster M67.


The White Dwarf Cooling Sequence of the Globular Cluster Messier 4

  We present the white dwarf sequence of the globular cluster M4, based on a
123 orbit Hubble Space Telescope exposure, with limiting magnitude V = 30, I =
28. The white dwarf luminosity function rises sharply for I >25.5, consistent
with the behaviour expected for a burst population. The white dwarfs of M4
extend to approximately 2.5 magnitudes fainter than the peak of the local
Galactic disk white dwarf luminosity function. This demonstrates a clear and
significant age difference between the Galactic disk and the halo globular
cluster M4. Using the same standard white dwarf models (Hansen 1999) to fit
each luminosity function yields ages of 7.3 +/- 1.5 Gyr for the disk and 12.7
+/- 0.7 Gyr for M4 (2-sigma statistical errors).


Boundary conformal field theory approach to the two-dimensional critical
  Ising model with a defect line

  We study the critical two-dimensional Ising model with a defect line (altered
bond strength along a line) in the continuum limit. By folding the system at
the defect line, the problem is mapped to a special case of the critical
Ashkin-Teller model, the continuum limit of which is the $Z_2$ orbifold of the
free boson, with a boundary. Possible boundary states on the $Z_2$ orbifold
theory are explored, and a special case is applied to the Ising defect problem.
We find the complete spectrum of boundary operators, exact two-point
correlation functions and the universal term in the free energy of the defect
line for arbitrary strength of the defect. We also find a new universality
class of defect lines. It is conjectured that we have found all the possible
universality classes of defect lines in the Ising model. Relative stabilities
among the defect universality classes are discussed.


Spin Gap in a Doped Kondo Chain

  We show that the Kondo chain away from half-filling has a spin gap upon the
introduction of an additional direct Heisenberg coupling between localized
spins. This is understood in the weak-Kondo-coupling limit of the
Heisenberg-Kondo lattice model by bosonization and in the strong-coupling limit
by a mapping to a modified t-J model. Only for certain ranges of filling and
Heisenberg coupling does the spin gap phase extend from weak to strong
coupling.


Magnetically Stabilized Nematic Order I: Three-Dimensional Bipartite
  Optical Lattices

  We study magnetically stabilized nematic order for spin-one bosons in optical
lattices. We show that the Zeeman field-driven quantum transitions between
non-nematic Mott states and quantum spin nematic states in the weak hopping
limit are in the universality class of the ferromagnetic XXZ (S=1/2) spin
model. We further discuss these transitions as condensation of interacting
magnons. The development of O(2) nematic order when external fields are applied
corresponds to condensation of magnons, which breaks a U(1) symmetry.
Microscopically, this results from a coherent superposition of two non-nematic
states at each individual site. Nematic order and spin wave excitations around
critical points are studied and critical behaviors are obtained in a dilute gas
approximation. We also find that spin singlet states are unstable with respect
to quadratic Zeeman effects and Ising nematic order appears in the presence of
any finite quadratic Zeeman coupling. All discussions are carried out for
states in three dimensional bipartite lattices.


Knot polynomials and generalized mutation

  The motivation for this work was to construct a nontrivial knot with trivial
Jones polynomial. Although that open problem has not yielded, the methods are
useful for other problems in the theory of knot polynomials. The subject of the
present paper is a generalization of Conway's mutation of knots and links.
Instead of flipping a 2-strand tangle, one flips a many-string tangle to
produce a generalized mutant. In the presence of rotational symmetry in that
tangle, the result is called a "rotant". We show that if a rotant is
sufficiently simple, then its Jones polynomial agrees with that of the original
link. As an application, this provides a method of generating many examples of
links with the same Jones polynomial, but different Alexander polynomials.
Various other knot polynomials, as well as signature, are also invariant under
such moves, if one imposes more stringent conditions upon the symmetries.
Applications are also given to polynomials of satellites and symmetric knots.


Pseudospectral methods for atoms in strong magnetic fields

  We present a new pseudospectral algorithm for the calculation of the
structure of atoms in strong magnetic fields. We have verified this technique
for one, two and three-electron atoms in zero magnetic fields against
laboratory results and find typically better than one-percent accuracy. We
further verify this technique against the state-of-the-art calculations of
hydrogen, helium and lithium in strong magnetic fields (up to about $2\times
10^{6}$ T) and find a similar level of agreement. The key enabling advantages
of the algorithm are its simplicity (about 130 lines of commented code) and its
speed (about $10^2-10^5$ times faster than finite-element methods to achieve
similar accuracy).


Protohalo Constraints to the Resonant Annihilation of Dark Matter

  It has recently been argued that the PAMELA, ATIC and PPB-BETS data showing
an anomalous excess of high-energy cosmic ray positrons and electrons might be
explained by dark matter annihilating in the Galactic halo with a cross section
resonantly enhanced compared to its value in the primeval plasma. We find that
with a very large annihilation cross section the flash of energetic photons and
electron-positron pairs expected from dark-matter annihilation in the first
protohalos that form at redshift z~40 is likely substantial and observable. As
a consequence, bounds on the allowed energy injection into the primordial gas
and the energy density of the diffuse gamma-ray background give rise to limits
on the low-velocity dark matter cross section that can be difficult to
reconcile with this interpretation of the PAMELA, ATIC and PPB-BETS results.


Multi-State Dark Matter from Spherical Extra Dimensions

  We demonstrate a new model which uses an ADD type braneworld scenario to
produce a multi-state theory of dark matter. Compactification of the extra
dimensions onto a sphere leads to the association of a single complex scalar in
the bulk with multiple Kaluza-Klein towers in an effective four-dimensional
theory. A mutually interacting multi-state theory of dark matter arises
naturally within which the dark matter states are identified with the lightest
Kaluza-Klein particles of fixed magnetic quantum number. These states are
protected from decay by a combination of a global U(1) symmetry and the
continuous rotational symmetry about the polar axis of the spherical geometry.
We briefly discuss the relic abundance calculation and investigate the
spin-independent elastic scattering off nucleons of the lightest and
next-to-lightest dark matter states.


Tunable Luttinger liquid physics in biased bilayer graphene

  Electronically gated bilayer graphene behaves as a tunable gap semiconductor
under a uniform interlayer bias $V_{g}$. Imposing a spatially varying bias,
which changes polarity from $-V_g$ to $+V_g$, leads to one dimensional (1D)
chiral modes localized along the domain wall of the bias. Due to the broad
transverse spread of their low-energy wavefunctions, we find that the dominant
interaction between these 1D electrons is the forward scattering part of the
Coulomb repulsion. Incorporating these interactions and the gate voltage
dependence of the dispersion and wavefunctions, we find that these 1D modes
behave as a strongly interacting Tomonaga-Luttinger liquid with three distinct
mode velocities and a bias dependent Luttinger parameter, and discuss its
experimental signatures.


On quantifying and resolving the BICEP2/Planck tension over
  gravitational waves

  The recent BICEP2 measurement of primordial gravity waves (r =
0.2^{+0.07}_{-0.05}) appears to be in tension with the upper limit from WMAP
(r<0.13 at 95% CL) and Planck (r<0.11 at 95% CL). We carefully quantify the
level of tension and show that it is very significant (around 0.1% unlikely)
when the observed deficit of large-scale temperature power is taken into
account. We show that measurements of TE and EE power spectra in the near
future will discriminate between the hypotheses that this tension is either a
statistical fluke, or a sign of new physics. We also discuss extensions of the
standard cosmological model that relieve the tension, and some novel ways to
constrain them.


The Effects of Rayleigh Scattering on the CMB and Cosmic Structure

  During and after recombination, in addition to Thomson scattering with free
electrons, photons also coupled to neutral hydrogen and helium atoms through
Rayleigh scattering. This coupling influences both CMB anisotropies and the
distribution of matter in the Universe. The frequency-dependence of the
Rayleigh cross section breaks the thermal nature of CMB temperature and
polarization anisotropies and effectively doubles the number of variables
needed to describe CMB intensity and polarization statistics, while the
additional atomic coupling changes the matter distribution and the lensing of
the CMB. We introduce a new method to capture the effects of Rayleigh
scattering on cosmological power spectra. Rayleigh scattering modifies CMB
temperature and polarization anisotropies at the $\sim\!1 \%$ level at $353
{\rm GHz}$ (scaling $\propto \nu^4$), and modifies matter correlations by as
much as $\sim\!0.3\%$. We show the Rayleigh signal, especially the
cross-spectra between the thermal (Rayleigh) E-polarization and Rayleigh
(thermal) intensity signal, may be detectable with future CMB missions even in
the presence of foregrounds, and how this new information might help to better
constrain the cosmological parameters.


The SCUBA-2 Cosmology Legacy Survey: blank-field number counts of
  450um-selected galaxies and their contribution to the cosmic infrared
  background

  The first deep blank-field 450um map (1-sigma~1.3mJy) from the SCUBA-2
Cosmology Legacy Survey (S2CLS), conducted with the James Clerk Maxwell
Telescope (JCMT) is presented. Our map covers 140 arcmin^2 of the COSMOS field,
in the footprint of the HST CANDELS area. Using 60 submillimetre galaxies
(SMGs) detected at >3.75-sigma, we evaluate the number counts of 450um-selected
galaxies with flux densities S_450>5mJy. The 8-arcsec JCMT beam and high
sensitivity of SCUBA-2 now make it possible to directly resolve a larger
fraction of the cosmic infrared background (CIB, peaking at ~200um) into the
individual galaxies responsible for its emission than has previously been
possible at this wavelength. At S_450>5mJy we resolve (7.4[+/-]0.7)x10^-2
MJy/sr of the CIB at 450um (equivalent to 16[+/-]7% of the absolute brightness
measured by COBE at this wavelength) into point sources. A further ~40% of the
CIB can be recovered through a statistical stack of 24um emitters in this
field, indicating that the majority (~60%) of the CIB at 450um is emitted by
galaxies with S_450>2mJy. The average redshift of 450um emitters identified
with an optical/near-infrared counterpart is estimated to be <z>=1.3, implying
that the galaxies in the sample are in the ultraluminous class (L_IR~1.1x10^12
L_sun). If the galaxies contributing to the statistical stack lie at similar
redshifts, then the majority of the CIB at 450um is emitted by galaxies in the
LIRG class with L_IR>3.6x10^11 L_sun.


The Lower Main Sequence and Mass Function of the Globular Cluster
  Messier 4

  The deepest optical image ever in a globular star cluster, a Hubble Space
Telescope (HST) 123 orbit exposure in a single field of Messier 4, was obtained
in 2 filters (F606W, F814W) over a 10 week period in early 2001. A somewhat
shallower image obtained in 1995 allowed us to select out cluster and field
objects via their proper motion displacement resulting in remarkably clean
color-magnitude diagrams that reach to V = 30, I = 28. The cluster main
sequence luminosity function contains very few stars fainter than MV = 15.0, MI
= 11.8 which, in both filters, is more than 2 magnitudes brighter than our
limit. This is about the faintest luminosity seen among field Population II
subdwarfs of the same metallicity. However, there remains a sprinkling of
potential cluster stars to lower luminosity all the way down to our limiting
magnitudes. These latter objects are significantly redder than any known
metal-poor field subdwarf. Comparison with the current generation of
theoretical stellar models implies that the masses of the lowest luminosity
cluster stars observed are near 0.09 Msun. We derive the mass function of the
cluster in our field and find that it is very slowly rising towards the lowest
masses with no convincing evidence of a turnover even below 0.1 Msun. The
formal slope between 0.65 and 0.09 Msun is alpha = 0.75 (Salpeter of 2.35) with
a 99% confidence interval 0.55 - 1.05. A consistency check between these slopes
and the number of observed cluster white dwarfs yields a range of possible
conclusions, one of which is that we have indeed seen the termination of the
white dwarf cooling sequence in M4.


Learning Local Image Descriptors with Deep Siamese and Triplet
  Convolutional Networks by Minimising Global Loss Functions

  Recent innovations in training deep convolutional neural network (ConvNet)
models have motivated the design of new methods to automatically learn local
image descriptors. The latest deep ConvNets proposed for this task consist of a
siamese network that is trained by penalising misclassification of pairs of
local image patches. Current results from machine learning show that replacing
this siamese by a triplet network can improve the classification accuracy in
several problems, but this has yet to be demonstrated for local image
descriptor learning. Moreover, current siamese and triplet networks have been
trained with stochastic gradient descent that computes the gradient from
individual pairs or triplets of local image patches, which can make them prone
to overfitting. In this paper, we first propose the use of triplet networks for
the problem of local image descriptor learning. Furthermore, we also propose
the use of a global loss that minimises the overall classification error in the
training set, which can improve the generalisation capability of the model.
Using the UBC benchmark dataset for comparing local image descriptors, we show
that the triplet network produces a more accurate embedding than the siamese
network in terms of the UBC dataset errors. Moreover, we also demonstrate that
a combination of the triplet and global losses produces the best embedding in
the field, using this triplet network. Finally, we also show that the use of
the central-surround siamese network trained with the global loss produces the
best result of the field on the UBC dataset. Pre-trained models are available
online at https://github.com/vijaykbg/deep-patchmatch


Neutron Star Masses from Arecibo Timing Observations of Five
  Pulsar-White Dwarf Binary Systems

  We have detected relativistic and/or kinematic post-Keplerian parameters of
no fewer than five pulsar-white dwarf binary systems in long-term timing
observations at Arecibo. We discuss the resulting constraints on pulsar and
companion masses. The general trend is that the pulsar mass measurements are
compatible with the canonical value of 1.35 solar masses, but in most cases
somewhat higher masses are preferred.


Recent Globular Cluster Searches with Arecibo and the Green Bank
  Telescope

  We report the discovery of seven new millisecond pulsars during 20 cm
searches of 19 globular clusters using the recently upgraded Arecibo Telescope
and the new Green Bank Telescope (GBT). Five of the pulsars are in compact
binaries, three of which are eclipsing. One of the systems is in an eccentric
orbit which is almost certainly highly relativistic. Additional searches and
timing observations are underway.


Testing General Relativity with Pulsar Timing

  Pulsars of very different types - isolated objects, and binaries with short-
and long-period orbits, white-dwarf and neutron-star companions - provide the
means to test both the predictions of general relativity and the viability of
alternate theories of gravity. This article presents an overview of pulsars,
then discusses the current status and future prospects of tests of equivalence
principle violations and strong-field gravitational experiments.


