The XX-model with boundaries. Part II: Finite size scaling and partition
  functions

  We compute the continuum limit of the spectra for the XX-model with arbitrary
complex boundary fields. In the case of hermitian boundary terms one obtains
the partition functions of the free compactified boson field on a cylinder with
Neumann-Neumann, Dirichlet-Neumann or Dirichlet-Dirichlet boundary conditions.
This applies also for certain non-hermitian boundaries. For special cases we
also compute the free surface energy. For certain non-hermitian boundary terms
the results are more complex.Here one obtains logarithmic corrections to the
free surface energy. The asymmetric version of the XX-model with boundaries
(this includes the Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya interaction)is also discussed.


The Jordan lattice completion and a note on injective envelopes and von
  Neumann algebras

  The article associates two fundamental lattice constructions with each
regular unital real ordered Banach space (function system). These are used to
establish certain results in the theory of operator algebras, specifically
relating the injective envelope of a separable C*-algebra with its enveloping
von Neumann algebra in a given faithful separable representation. The last
section investigates on lattices of projections arising in injective
C*-algebras and von Neumann algebras and certain nonlinear maps sending
projections to projections which are essentially determined by their values on
positive projections.


Moduli Stacks of Vector Bundles and Frobenius Morphisms

  We describe the action of the different Frobenius morphisms on the cohomology
ring of the moduli stack of algebraic vector bundles of fixed rank and
determinant on an algebraic curve over a finite field in characteristic p and
analyse special situations like vector bundles on the projective line and
relations with infinite Grassmannians.


A note on injective envelopes and von Neumann algebras

  The article exhibits certain relations between the injective envelope I(A) of
a C*-algebra A and the von Neumann algebra generated by a representation lambda
of A provided it is injective. More specifically we show that there exist
positive retractions sigma : /lambda (A)'' ---> I(A) which are close to being
*-homomorphisms in the sense that they are Jordan homomorphisms of the
underlying Jordan algebras, and the kernel of /sigma is given by a twosided
ideal.


Local transport measurements on epitaxial graphene

  Growth of large-scale graphene is still accompanied by imperfections. By
means of a four-tip STM/SEM the local structure of graphene grown on SiC(0001)
was correlated with scanning electron microscope images and spatially resolved
transport measurements. The systematic variation of probe spacings and
substrate temperature has clearly revealed two-dimensional transport regimes of
Anderson localization as well as of diffusive transport. The detailed analysis
of the temperature dependent data demonstrates that the local on-top nano-sized
contacts do not induce significant strain to the epitaxial graphene films.


Hypercontractivity of heat semigroups on free quantum groups

  In this paper we study two semigroups of completely positive unital
self-adjoint maps on the von Neumann algebras of the free orthogonal quantum
group $O_N^+$ and the free permutation quantum group $S_N^+$. We show that
these semigroups satisfy ultracontractivity and hypercontractivity estimates.
We also give results regarding spectral gap and logarithmic Sobolev
inequalities.


Efficiency of different numerical methods for solving Redfield equations

  The numerical efficiency of different schemes for solving the Liouville-von
Neumann equation within multilevel Redfield theory has been studied. Among the
tested algorithms are the well-known Runge-Kutta scheme in two different
implementations as well as methods especially developed for time propagation:
the Short Iterative Arnoldi, Chebyshev and Newtonian propagators. In addition,
an implementation of a symplectic integrator has been studied. For a simple
example of a two-center electron transfer system we discuss some aspects of the
efficiency of these methods to integrate the equations of motion. Overall for
time-independent potentials the Newtonian method is recommended. For
time-dependent potentials implementations of the Runge-Kutta algorithm are very
efficient.


Markovian Statistics on Evolving Systems

  A novel framework for the analysis of observation statistics on time discrete
linear evolutions in Banach space is presented. The model differs from
traditional models for stochastic processes and, in particular, clearly
distinguishes between the deterministic evolution of a system and the
stochastic nature of observations on the evolving system. General Markov chains
are defined in this context and it is shown how typical traditional models of
classical or quantum random walks and Markov processes fit into the framework
and how a theory of quantum statistics ({\it sensu} Barndorff-Nielsen, Gill and
Jupp) may be developed from it. The framework permits a general theory of joint
observability of two or more observation variables which may be viewed as an
extension of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle and, in particular, offers a
novel mathematical perspective on the violation of Bell's inequalities in
quantum models. Main results include a general sampling theorem relative to
Riesz evolution operators in the spirit of von Neumann's mean ergodic theorem
for normal operators in Hilbert space.


Entanglement and boundary critical phenomena

  We investigate boundary critical phenomena from a quantum information
perspective. Bipartite entanglement in the ground state of one-dimensional
quantum systems is quantified using the Renyi entropy S_alpha, which includes
the von Neumann entropy (alpha=1) and the single-copy entanglement
(alpha=infinity) as special cases. We identify the contribution from the
boundary entropy to the Renyi entropy, and show that there is an entanglement
loss along boundary renormalization group (RG) flows. This property, which is
intimately related to the Affleck-Ludwig g-theorem, can be regarded as a
consequence of majorization relations between the spectra of the reduced
density matrix along the boundary RG flows. We also point out that the bulk
contribution to the single-copy entanglement is half of that to the von Neumann
entropy, whereas the boundary contribution is the same.


A Mosaic of the Coma Cluster of Galaxies with XMM-Newton

  The Coma cluster of galaxies was observed with XMM-Newton in 12 partially
overlapping pointings. We present here the resulting X-ray map in different
energy bands and discuss the large scale structure of this cluster. Many point
sources were found throughout the observed area, at least 11 of them are
coincident with bright galaxies. We also give a hardness ratio map at the so
far highest angular resolution obtained for a cluster of galaxies. In this map
we found soft regions at the position of bright galaxies, little variation in
the central 15 arcmin, but some harder regions north of the line NGC 4874 - NGC
4889.


Localization of Inner-Shell Photoelectron Emission and Interatomic
  Coulombic Decay in Ne$_2$

  We used Cold Target Recoil Ion Momentum Spectroscopy (COLTRIMS) to
investigate the decay of Ne$_2$ after K-shell photoionization. The breakup into
Ne$^{1+}$ / Ne$^{2+}$ shows interatomic Coulombic decay (ICD) occurring after a
preceding atomic Auger decay. The molecular frame angular distributions of the
photoelectron and the ICD electron show distinct, asymmetric features, which
imply localization of the K-vacancy created at one of the two atomic sites of
the Ne$_2$ and an emission of the ICD electron from a localized site. The
experimental results are supported by calculations in frozen core Hartree-Fock
approach.


Scene Labeling using Gated Recurrent Units with Explicit Long Range
  Conditioning

  Recurrent neural network (RNN), as a powerful contextual dependency modeling
framework, has been widely applied to scene labeling problems. However, this
work shows that directly applying traditional RNN architectures, which unfolds
a 2D lattice grid into a sequence, is not sufficient to model structure
dependencies in images due to the "impact vanishing" problem. First, we give an
empirical analysis about the "impact vanishing" problem. Then, a new RNN unit
named Recurrent Neural Network with explicit long range conditioning (RNN-ELC)
is designed to alleviate this problem. A novel neural network architecture is
built for scene labeling tasks where one of the variants of the new RNN unit,
Gated Recurrent Unit with Explicit Long-range Conditioning (GRU-ELC), is used
to model multi scale contextual dependencies in images. We validate the use of
GRU-ELC units with state-of-the-art performance on three standard scene
labeling datasets. Comprehensive experiments demonstrate that the new GRU-ELC
unit benefits scene labeling problem a lot as it can encode longer contextual
dependencies in images more effectively than traditional RNN units.


Shape Inpainting using 3D Generative Adversarial Network and Recurrent
  Convolutional Networks

  Recent advances in convolutional neural networks have shown promising results
in 3D shape completion. But due to GPU memory limitations, these methods can
only produce low-resolution outputs. To inpaint 3D models with semantic
plausibility and contextual details, we introduce a hybrid framework that
combines a 3D Encoder-Decoder Generative Adversarial Network (3D-ED-GAN) and a
Long-term Recurrent Convolutional Network (LRCN). The 3D-ED-GAN is a 3D
convolutional neural network trained with a generative adversarial paradigm to
fill missing 3D data in low-resolution. LRCN adopts a recurrent neural network
architecture to minimize GPU memory usage and incorporates an Encoder-Decoder
pair into a Long Short-term Memory Network. By handling the 3D model as a
sequence of 2D slices, LRCN transforms a coarse 3D shape into a more complete
and higher resolution volume. While 3D-ED-GAN captures global contextual
structure of the 3D shape, LRCN localizes the fine-grained details.
Experimental results on both real-world and synthetic data show reconstructions
from corrupted models result in complete and high-resolution 3D objects.


SGPN: Similarity Group Proposal Network for 3D Point Cloud Instance
  Segmentation

  We introduce Similarity Group Proposal Network (SGPN), a simple and intuitive
deep learning framework for 3D object instance segmentation on point clouds.
SGPN uses a single network to predict point grouping proposals and a
corresponding semantic class for each proposal, from which we can directly
extract instance segmentation results. Important to the effectiveness of SGPN
is its novel representation of 3D instance segmentation results in the form of
a similarity matrix that indicates the similarity between each pair of points
in embedded feature space, thus producing an accurate grouping proposal for
each point. To the best of our knowledge, SGPN is the first framework to learn
3D instance-aware semantic segmentation on point clouds. Experimental results
on various 3D scenes show the effectiveness of our method on 3D instance
segmentation, and we also evaluate the capability of SGPN to improve 3D object
detection and semantic segmentation results. We also demonstrate its
flexibility by seamlessly incorporating 2D CNN features into the framework to
boost performance.


Learning to Prune Filters in Convolutional Neural Networks

  Many state-of-the-art computer vision algorithms use large scale
convolutional neural networks (CNNs) as basic building blocks. These CNNs are
known for their huge number of parameters, high redundancy in weights, and
tremendous computing resource consumptions. This paper presents a learning
algorithm to simplify and speed up these CNNs. Specifically, we introduce a
"try-and-learn" algorithm to train pruning agents that remove unnecessary CNN
filters in a data-driven way. With the help of a novel reward function, our
agents removes a significant number of filters in CNNs while maintaining
performance at a desired level. Moreover, this method provides an easy control
of the tradeoff between network performance and its scale. Per- formance of our
algorithm is validated with comprehensive pruning experiments on several
popular CNNs for visual recognition and semantic segmentation tasks.


Recurrent Slice Networks for 3D Segmentation of Point Clouds

  Point clouds are an efficient data format for 3D data. However, existing 3D
segmentation methods for point clouds either do not model local dependencies
\cite{pointnet} or require added computations \cite{kd-net,pointnet2}. This
work presents a novel 3D segmentation framework, RSNet\footnote{Codes are
released here https://github.com/qianguih/RSNet}, to efficiently model local
structures in point clouds. The key component of the RSNet is a lightweight
local dependency module. It is a combination of a novel slice pooling layer,
Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) layers, and a slice unpooling layer. The slice
pooling layer is designed to project features of unordered points onto an
ordered sequence of feature vectors so that traditional end-to-end learning
algorithms (RNNs) can be applied. The performance of RSNet is validated by
comprehensive experiments on the S3DIS\cite{stanford}, ScanNet\cite{scannet},
and ShapeNet \cite{shapenet} datasets. In its simplest form, RSNets surpass all
previous state-of-the-art methods on these benchmarks. And comparisons against
previous state-of-the-art methods \cite{pointnet, pointnet2} demonstrate the
efficiency of RSNets.


Depth-aware CNN for RGB-D Segmentation

  Convolutional neural networks (CNN) are limited by the lack of capability to
handle geometric information due to the fixed grid kernel structure. The
availability of depth data enables progress in RGB-D semantic segmentation with
CNNs. State-of-the-art methods either use depth as additional images or process
spatial information in 3D volumes or point clouds. These methods suffer from
high computation and memory cost. To address these issues, we present
Depth-aware CNN by introducing two intuitive, flexible and effective
operations: depth-aware convolution and depth-aware average pooling. By
leveraging depth similarity between pixels in the process of information
propagation, geometry is seamlessly incorporated into CNN. Without introducing
any additional parameters, both operators can be easily integrated into
existing CNNs. Extensive experiments and ablation studies on challenging RGB-D
semantic segmentation benchmarks validate the effectiveness and flexibility of
our approach.


Stochastic Dynamics for Video Infilling

  In this paper, we introduce a stochastic generation framework (SDVI) to
infill long intervals in video sequences. To enhance the temporal resolution,
video interpolation aims to produce transitional frames for a short interval
between every two frames. Video Infilling, however, aims to complete long
intervals in a video sequence. Our framework models the infilling as a
constrained stochastic generation process and sequentially samples dynamics
from the inferred distribution. SDVI consists of two parts: (1) a
bi-directional constraint propagation to guarantee the spatial-temporal
coherency among frames, (2) a stochastic sampling process to generate dynamics
from the inferred distributions. Experimental results show that SDVI can
generate clear and varied sequences. Moreover, motions in the generated
sequence are realistic and able to transfer smoothly from the referenced start
frame to the end frame.


Efficient Multi-Domain Dictionary Learning with GANs

  In this paper, we propose the multi-domain dictionary learning (MDDL) to make
dictionary learning-based classification more robust to data representing in
different domains. We use adversarial neural networks to generate data in
different styles, and collect all the generated data into a miscellaneous
dictionary. To tackle the dictionary learning with many samples, we compute the
weighting matrix that compress the miscellaneous dictionary from multi-sample
per class to single sample per class. We show that the time complexity solving
the proposed MDDL with weighting matrix is the same as solving the dictionary
with single sample per class. Moreover, since the weighting matrix could help
the solver rely more on the training data, which possibly lie in the same
domain with the testing data, the classification could be more accurate.


3DN: 3D Deformation Network

  Applications in virtual and augmented reality create a demand for rapid
creation and easy access to large sets of 3D models. An effective way to
address this demand is to edit or deform existing 3D models based on a
reference, e.g., a 2D image which is very easy to acquire. Given such a source
3D model and a target which can be a 2D image, 3D model, or a point cloud
acquired as a depth scan, we introduce 3DN, an end-to-end network that deforms
the source model to resemble the target. Our method infers per-vertex offset
displacements while keeping the mesh connectivity of the source model fixed. We
present a training strategy which uses a novel differentiable operation, mesh
sampling operator, to generalize our method across source and target models
with varying mesh densities. Mesh sampling operator can be seamlessly
integrated into the network to handle meshes with different topologies.
Qualitative and quantitative results show that our method generates higher
quality results compared to the state-of-the art learning-based methods for 3D
shape generation. Code is available at github.com/laughtervv/3DN.


The MICADO first light imager for the ELT: overview, operation,
  simulation

  MICADO will enable the ELT to perform diffraction limited near-infrared
observations at first light. The instrument's capabilities focus on imaging
(including astrometric and high contrast) as well as single object
spectroscopy. This contribution looks at how requirements from the observing
modes have driven the instrument design and functionality. Using examples from
specific science cases, and making use of the data simulation tool, an outline
is presented of what we can expect the instrument to achieve.


Multiple Star Systems in the Orion Nebula

  This work presents an interferometric study of the massive-binary fraction in
the Orion Trapezium Cluster with the recently comissioned GRAVITY instrument.
We observe a total of 16 stars of mainly OB spectral type. We find three
previously unknown companions for $\theta ^1$ Ori B, $\theta ^2$ Ori B, and
$\theta ^2$ Ori C. We determine a separation for the previously suspected
companion of NU Ori. We confirm four companions for $\theta ^1$ Ori A, $\theta
^1$ Ori C, $\theta ^1$ Ori D, and $\theta ^2$ Ori A, all with substantially
improved astrometry and photometric mass estimates. We refine the orbit of the
eccentric high-mass binary $\theta ^1$ Ori C and we are able to derive a new
orbit for $\theta ^1$ Ori D. We find a system mass of 21.7 $M_{\odot}$ and a
period of $53$ days. Together with other previously detected companions seen in
spectroscopy or direct imaging, eleven of the 16 high-mass stars are multiple
systems. We obtain a total number of 22 companions with separations up to 600
AU. The companion fraction of the early B and O stars in our sample is about 2,
significantly higher than in earlier studies of mostly OB associations. The
separation distribution hints towards a bimodality. Such a bimodality has been
previously found in A stars, but rarely in OB binaries, which up to this point
have been assumed to be mostly compact with a tail of wider companions. We also
do not find a substantial population of equal-mass binaries. The observed
distribution of mass ratios declines steeply with mass, and like the direct
star counts, indicates that our companions follow a standard power law initial
mass function. Again, this is in contrast to earlier findings of flat mass
ratio distributions in OB associations. We exclude collision as a dominant
formation mechanism but find no clear preference for core accretion or
competitive accretion.


