WikiRank: Improving Keyphrase Extraction Based on Background Knowledge

  Keyphrase is an efficient representation of the main idea of documents. While
background knowledge can provide valuable information about documents, they are
rarely incorporated in keyphrase extraction methods. In this paper, we propose
WikiRank, an unsupervised method for keyphrase extraction based on the
background knowledge from Wikipedia. Firstly, we construct a semantic graph for
the document. Then we transform the keyphrase extraction problem into an
optimization problem on the graph. Finally, we get the optimal keyphrase set to
be the output. Our method obtains improvements over other state-of-art models
by more than 2% in F1-score.


Delay Minimization for NOMA-MEC Offloading

  This paper considers the minimization of the offloading delay for
non-orthogonal multiple access assisted mobile edge computing (NOMA-MEC). By
transforming the delay minimization problem into a form of fractional
programming, two iterative algorithms based on Dinkelbach's method and Newton's
method are proposed. The optimality of both methods is proved and their
convergence is compared. Furthermore, criteria for choosing between three
possible modes, namely orthogonal multiple access (OMA), pure NOMA, and hybrid
NOMA, for MEC offloading are established.


Power Control and Performance Analysis of Outage-Limited Cellular
  Network with MUD-SIC and Macro-Diversity

  In this paper, we analyze the uplink goodput (bits/sec/Hz successfully
decoded) and per-user packet outage in a cellular network using multi-user
detection with successive interference cancellation (MUD-SIC). We consider
non-ergodic fading channels where microscopic fading channel information is not
available at the transmitters. As a result, packet outage occurs whenever the
data rate of packet transmissions exceeds the instantaneous mutual information
even if powerful channel coding is applied for protection. We are interested to
study the role of macro-diversity (MDiv) between multiple base stations on the
MUD-SIC performance where the effect of potential error-propagation during the
SIC processing is taken into account. While the jointly optimal power and
decoding order in the MUD-SIC are NP hard problem, we derive a simple on/off
power control and asymptotically optimal decoding order with respect to the
transmit power. Based on the information theoretical framework, we derive the
closed-form expressions on the total system goodput as well as the per-user
packet outage probability. We show that the system goodput does not scale with
SNR due to mutual interference in the SIC process and macro-diversity (MDiv)
could alleviate the problem and benefit to the system goodput.


Navigating in a sea of repeats in RNA-seq without drowning

  The main challenge in de novo assembly of NGS data is certainly to deal with
repeats that are longer than the reads. This is particularly true for RNA- seq
data, since coverage information cannot be used to flag repeated sequences, of
which transposable elements are one of the main examples. Most transcriptome
assemblers are based on de Bruijn graphs and have no clear and explicit model
for repeats in RNA-seq data, relying instead on heuristics to deal with them.
The results of this work are twofold. First, we introduce a formal model for
repre- senting high copy number repeats in RNA-seq data and exploit its
properties for inferring a combinatorial characteristic of repeat-associated
subgraphs. We show that the problem of identifying in a de Bruijn graph a
subgraph with this charac- teristic is NP-complete. In a second step, we show
that in the specific case of a local assembly of alternative splicing (AS)
events, we can implicitly avoid such subgraphs. In particular, we designed and
implemented an algorithm to efficiently identify AS events that are not
included in repeated regions. Finally, we validate our results using synthetic
data. We also give an indication of the usefulness of our method on real data.


Which Clustering Do You Want? Inducing Your Ideal Clustering with
  Minimal Feedback

  While traditional research on text clustering has largely focused on grouping
documents by topic, it is conceivable that a user may want to cluster documents
along other dimensions, such as the authors mood, gender, age, or sentiment.
Without knowing the users intention, a clustering algorithm will only group
documents along the most prominent dimension, which may not be the one the user
desires. To address the problem of clustering documents along the user-desired
dimension, previous work has focused on learning a similarity metric from data
manually annotated with the users intention or having a human construct a
feature space in an interactive manner during the clustering process. With the
goal of reducing reliance on human knowledge for fine-tuning the similarity
function or selecting the relevant features required by these approaches, we
propose a novel active clustering algorithm, which allows a user to easily
select the dimension along which she wants to cluster the documents by
inspecting only a small number of words. We demonstrate the viability of our
algorithm on a variety of commonly-used sentiment datasets.


Chiral Topological Orders in an Optical Raman Lattice

  We find an optical Raman lattice without spin-orbit coupling showing chiral
topological orders for cold atoms. Two incident plane-wave lasers are applied
to generate simultaneously a double-well square lattice and periodic Raman
couplings, the latter of which drive the nearest-neighbor hopping and create a
staggered flux pattern across the lattice. Such a minimal setup is can yield
the quantum anomalous Hall effect in the single particle regime, while in the
interacting regime it achieves the $J_1$-$J_2$-$K$ model with all parameters
controllable, which supports a chiral spin liquid phase. We further show that
heating in the present optical Raman lattice is reduced by more than one order
of magnitude compared with the conventional laser-assisted tunneling schemes.
This suggests that the predicted topological states be well reachable with the
current experimental capability.


Narrowing the Modeling Gap: A Cluster-Ranking Approach to Coreference
  Resolution

  Traditional learning-based coreference resolvers operate by training the
mention-pair model for determining whether two mentions are coreferent or not.
Though conceptually simple and easy to understand, the mention-pair model is
linguistically rather unappealing and lags far behind the heuristic-based
coreference models proposed in the pre-statistical NLP era in terms of
sophistication. Two independent lines of recent research have attempted to
improve the mention-pair model, one by acquiring the mention-ranking model to
rank preceding mentions for a given anaphor, and the other by training the
entity-mention model to determine whether a preceding cluster is coreferent
with a given mention. We propose a cluster-ranking approach to coreference
resolution, which combines the strengths of the mention-ranking model and the
entity-mention model, and is therefore theoretically more appealing than both
of these models. In addition, we seek to improve cluster rankers via two
extensions: (1) lexicalization and (2) incorporating knowledge of anaphoricity
by jointly modeling anaphoricity determination and coreference resolution.
Experimental results on the ACE data sets demonstrate the superior performance
of cluster rankers to competing approaches as well as the effectiveness of our
two extensions.


Application of Smart Antenna Technologies in Simultaneous Wireless
  Information and Power Transfer

  Simultaneous wireless information and power transfer (SWIPT) is a promising
solution to increase the lifetime of wireless nodes and hence alleviate the
energy bottleneck of energy constrained wireless networks. As an alternative to
conventional energy harvesting techniques, SWIPT relies on the use of radio
frequency signals, and is expected to bring some fundamental changes to the
design of wireless communication networks. This article focuses on the
application of advanced smart antenna technologies, including multiple-input
multiple-output and relaying techniques, to SWIPT. These smart antenna
technologies have the potential to significantly improve the energy efficiency
and also the spectral efficiency of SWIPT. Different network topologies with
single and multiple users are investigated, along with some promising solutions
to achieve a favorable trade-off between system performance and complexity. A
detailed discussion of future research challenges for the design of SWIPT
systems is also provided.


Cross-Layer Optimization of Fast Video Delivery in Cache-Enabled
  Relaying Networks

  This paper investigates the cross-layer optimization of fast video delivery
and caching for minimization of the overall video delivery time in a two-hop
relaying network. The half-duplex relay nodes are equipped with both a cache
and a buffer which facilitate joint scheduling of fetching and delivery to
exploit the channel diversity for improving the overall delivery performance.
The fast delivery control is formulated as a two-stage functional non-convex
optimization problem. By exploiting the underlying convex and quasi-convex
structures, the problem can be solved exactly and efficiently by the developed
algorithm. Simulation results show that significant caching and buffering gains
can be achieved with the proposed framework, which translates into a reduction
of the overall video delivery time. Besides, a trade-off between caching and
buffering gains is unveiled.


Digital Waveguide Adiabatic Passage Part 2: Experiment

  Using a femtosecond laser writing technique, we fabricate and characterise
three-waveguide digital adiabatic passage devices, with the central waveguide
digitised into five discrete waveguidelets. Strongly asymmetric behaviour was
observed, devices operated with high fidelity in the counter-intuitive scheme
while strongly suppressing transmission in the intuitive. The low differential
loss of the digital adiabatic passage designs potentially offers additional
functionality for adiabatic passage based devices. These devices operate with a
high contrast ($>\!90\%$) over a 60nm bandwidth, centered at $\sim 823$nm.


Cache-Aided Non-Orthogonal Multiple Access

  In this paper, we propose a novel joint caching and non-orthogonal multiple
access (NOMA) scheme to facilitate advanced downlink transmission for next
generation cellular networks. In addition to reaping the conventional
advantages of caching and NOMA transmission, the proposed cache-aided NOMA
scheme also exploits cached data for interference cancellation which is not
possible with separate caching and NOMA transmission designs. Furthermore, as
caching can help to reduce the residual interference power, several decoding
orders are feasible at the receivers, and these decoding orders can be flexibly
selected for performance optimization. We characterize the achievable rate
region of cache-aided NOMA and investigate its benefits for minimizing the time
required to complete video file delivery. Our simulation results reveal that,
compared to several baseline schemes, the proposed cache-aided NOMA scheme
significantly expands the achievable rate region for downlink transmission,
which translates into substantially reduced file delivery times.


Origins of clustered frequency combs in Kerr microresonators

  Recent experiments have demonstrated the generation of widely-spaced
parametric sidebands that can evolve into "clustered" optical frequency combs
in Kerr microresonators. Here we describe the physics that underpins the
formation of such clustered comb states. In particular, we show that the
phase-matching required for the initial sideband generation is such that (at
least) one of the sidebands experiences anomalous dispersion, enabling that
sideband to drive frequency comb formation via degenerate and non-degenerate
four-wave mixing. We validate our proposal through a combination of
experimental observations made in a magnesium-fluoride microresonator and
corresponding numerical simulations. We also investigate the coherence
properties of the resulting clustered frequency combs. Our findings provide
valuable insights on the generation and dynamics of widely-spaced parametric
sidebands and clustered frequency combs in Kerr microresonators.


Cause Identification from Aviation Safety Incident Reports via Weakly
  Supervised Semantic Lexicon Construction

  The Aviation Safety Reporting System collects voluntarily submitted reports
on aviation safety incidents to facilitate research work aiming to reduce such
incidents. To effectively reduce these incidents, it is vital to accurately
identify why these incidents occurred. More precisely, given a set of possible
causes, or shaping factors, this task of cause identification involves
identifying all and only those shaping factors that are responsible for the
incidents described in a report. We investigate two approaches to cause
identification. Both approaches exploit information provided by a semantic
lexicon, which is automatically constructed via Thelen and Riloffs Basilisk
framework augmented with our linguistic and algorithmic modifications. The
first approach labels a report using a simple heuristic, which looks for the
words and phrases acquired during the semantic lexicon learning process in the
report. The second approach recasts cause identification as a text
classification problem, employing supervised and transductive text
classification algorithms to learn models from incident reports labeled with
shaping factors and using the models to label unseen reports. Our experiments
show that both the heuristic-based approach and the learning-based approach
(when given sufficient training data) outperform the baseline system
significantly.


Cache-Enabled Physical-Layer Security for Video Streaming in Wireless
  Networks with Limited Backhaul

  In this paper, we investigate for the first time the benefits of wireless
caching for the physical layer security (PLS) of wireless networks. In
particular, a caching scheme enabling power-efficient PLS is proposed for
cellular video streaming with constrained backhaul capacity. By sharing video
data across a subset of base stations (BSs) through both caching and backhaul
loading, secure cooperative transmission of several BSs is dynamically enabled
in accordance with the cache status, the channel conditions, and the backhaul
capacity. Thereby, caching reduces the data sharing overhead over the
capacity-constrained backhaul links. More importantly, caching introduces
additional secure degrees of freedom and enables a power-efficient design. We
investigate the optimal caching and transmission policies for minimizing the
total transmit power while providing quality of service (QoS) and guaranteeing
secrecy during video delivery. A two-stage non-convex mixed-integer
optimization problem is formulated, which optimizes the caching policy in an
offline video caching stage and the cooperative transmission policy in an
online video delivery stage. As the problem is NP-hard, suboptimal
polynomial-time algorithms are proposed for low-complexity cache training and
delivery control, respectively. Sufficient optimality conditions, under which
the proposed schemes attain global optimal solutions, are also provided.
Simulation results show that the proposed schemes achieve low secrecy outage
probability and high power efficiency simultaneously.


Secure Video Streaming in Heterogeneous Small Cell Networks with
  Untrusted Cache Helpers

  This paper studies secure video streaming in cache-enabled small cell
networks, where some of the cache-enabled small cell base stations (BSs)
helping in video delivery are untrusted. Unfavorably, caching improves the
eavesdropping capability of these untrusted helpers as they may intercept both
the cached and the delivered video files. To address this issue, we propose
joint caching and scalable video coding (SVC) of video files to enable secure
cooperative multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) transmission and, at the same
time, exploit the cache memory of both the trusted and untrusted BSs for
improving the system performance. Considering imperfect channel state
information (CSI) at the transmitters, we formulate a two-timescale non-convex
mixed-integer robust optimization problem to minimize the total transmit power
required for guaranteeing the quality of service (QoS) and secrecy during video
streaming. We develop an iterative algorithm based on a modified generalized
Benders decomposition (GBD) to solve the problem optimally, where the caching
and the cooperative transmission policies are determined via offline
(long-timescale) and online (short-timescale) optimization, respectively.
Furthermore, inspired by the optimal algorithm, a low-complexity suboptimal
algorithm based on a greedy heuristic is proposed. Simulation results show that
the proposed schemes achieve significant gains in power efficiency and secrecy
performance compared to several baseline schemes.


Cache-Enabled Physical Layer Security for Video Streaming in
  Backhaul-Limited Cellular Networks

  In this paper, we propose a novel wireless caching scheme to enhance the
physical layer security of video streaming in cellular networks with limited
backhaul capacity. By proactively sharing video data across a subset of base
stations (BSs) through both caching and backhaul loading, secure cooperative
joint transmission of several BSs can be dynamically enabled in accordance with
the cache status, the channel conditions, and the backhaul capacity. Assuming
imperfect channel state information (CSI) at the transmitters, we formulate a
two-stage non-convex mixed-integer robust optimization problem for minimizing
the total transmit power while providing quality of service (QoS) and
guaranteeing communication secrecy during video delivery, where the caching and
the cooperative transmission policy are optimized in an offline video caching
stage and an online video delivery stage, respectively. Although the formulated
optimization problem turns out to be NP-hard, low-complexity polynomial-time
algorithms, whose solutions are globally optimal under certain conditions, are
proposed for cache training and video delivery control. Caching is shown to be
beneficial as it reduces the data sharing overhead imposed on the
capacity-constrained backhaul links, introduces additional secure degrees of
freedom, and enables a power-efficient communication system design. Simulation
results confirm that the proposed caching scheme achieves simultaneously a low
secrecy outage probability and a high power efficiency. Furthermore, due to the
proposed robust optimization, the performance loss caused by imperfect CSI
knowledge can be significantly reduced when the cache capacity becomes large.


Cache-Aided Non-Orthogonal Multiple Access: The Two-User Case

  In this paper, we propose a cache-aided non-orthogonal multiple access (NOMA)
scheme for spectrally efficient downlink transmission. The proposed scheme not
only reaps the benefits associated with NOMA and caching, but also exploits the
data cached at the users for interference cancellation. As a consequence,
caching can help to reduce the residual interference power, making multiple
decoding orders at the users feasible. The resulting flexibility in decoding
can be exploited for improved NOMA detection. We characterize the achievable
rate region of cache-aided NOMA and derive the Pareto optimal rate tuples
forming the boundary of the rate region. Moreover, we optimize cache-aided NOMA
for minimization of the time required for completing file delivery. The optimal
decoding order and the optimal transmit power and rate allocation are derived
as functions of the cache status, the file sizes, and the channel conditions.
Simulation results confirm that, compared to several baseline schemes, the
proposed cache-aided NOMA scheme significantly expands the achievable rate
region and increases the sum rate for downlink transmission, which translates
into substantially reduced file delivery times.


The High Time Resolution Universe survey XIV: Discovery of 23 pulsars
  through GPU-accelerated reprocessing

  We have performed a new search for radio pulsars in archival data of the
intermediate and high Galactic latitude parts of the Southern High Time
Resolution Universe pulsar survey. This is the first time the entire dataset
has been searched for binary pulsars, an achievement enabled by GPU-accelerated
dedispersion and periodicity search codes nearly 50 times faster than the
previously used pipeline. Candidate selection was handled entirely by a Machine
Learning algorithm, allowing for the assessment of 17.6 million candidates in a
few person-days. We have also introduced an outlier detection algorithm for
efficient radio-frequency interference (RFI) mitigation on folded data, a new
approach that enabled the discovery of pulsars previously masked by RFI. We
discuss implications for future searches, particularly the importance of
expanding work on RFI mitigation to improve survey completeness. In total we
discovered 23 previously unknown sources, including 6 millisecond pulsars and
at least 4 pulsars in binary systems. We also found an elusive but credible
redback candidate that we have yet to confirm.


Octave-spanning tunable parametric oscillation in crystalline Kerr
  microresonators

  Parametric nonlinear optical processes allow for the generation of new
wavelengths of coherent electromagnetic radiation. Their ability to create
radiation that is widely tunable in wavelength is particularly appealing, with
applications ranging from spectroscopy to quantum information processing.
Unfortunately, existing tunable parametric sources are marred by deficiencies
that obstruct their widespread adoption. Here we show that ultrahigh-Q
crystalline microresonators made of magnesium fluoride can overcome these
limitations, enabling compact and power-efficient devices capable of generating
clean and widely-tunable sidebands. We consider several different resonators
with carefully engineered dispersion profiles, achieving hundreds of nanometers
of sideband tunability in each device when driven with a standard low-power
laser at 1550 nm. In addition to direct observations of discrete tunability
over an entire optical octave from 1083 nm to 2670 nm, we record signatures of
mid-infrared sidebands at almost 4000 nm. The simplicity of the devices
considered -- compounded by their remarkable tunability -- paves the way for
low-cost, widely-tunable sources of electromagnetic radiation.


Fundamentals of Wireless Information and Power Transfer: From RF Energy
  Harvester Models to Signal and System Designs

  Radio waves carry both energy and information simultaneously. Nevertheless,
Radio-Frequency (RF) transmission of these quantities have traditionally been
treated separately. Currently, we are experiencing a paradigm shift in wireless
network design, namely unifying wireless transmission of information and power
so as to make the best use of the RF spectrum and radiations as well as the
network infrastructure for the dual purpose of communicating and energizing. In
this paper, we review and discuss recent progress on laying the foundations of
the envisioned dual purpose networks by establishing a signal theory and design
for Wireless Information and Power Transmission (WIPT) and identifying the
fundamental tradeoff between conveying information and power wirelessly. We
start with an overview of WIPT challenges and technologies, namely Simultaneous
Wireless Information and Power Transfer (SWIPT),Wirelessly Powered
Communication Network (WPCN), and Wirelessly Powered Backscatter Communication
(WPBC). We then characterize energy harvesters and show how WIPT signal and
system designs crucially revolve around the underlying energy harvester model.
To that end, we highlight three different energy harvester models, namely one
linear model and two nonlinear models, and show how WIPT designs differ for
each of them in single-user and multi-user deployments. Topics discussed
include rate-energy region characterization, transmitter and receiver
architecture, waveform design, modulation, beamforming and input distribution
optimizations, resource allocation, and RF spectrum use. We discuss and check
the validity of the different energy harvester models and the resulting signal
theory and design based on circuit simulations, prototyping and
experimentation. We also point out numerous directions that are promising for
future research.


