Phase space geometry for constrained Lagrangian systems

  We study geometry of the phase space for finite-dimensional dynamical systems
with degenerate Lagrangians. The Lagrangian and Hamiltonian constraint
formalisms are treated as different local-coordinate pictures of the same
invariant procedure. The invariant description is given in terms of geometrical
objects associated with the structure of foliation on the phase space.


Universal probability-free prediction

  We construct universal prediction systems in the spirit of Popper's
falsifiability and Kolmogorov complexity and randomness. These prediction
systems do not depend on any statistical assumptions (but under the IID
assumption they dominate, to within the usual accuracy, conformal prediction).
Our constructions give rise to a theory of algorithmic complexity and
randomness of time containing analogues of several notions and results of the
classical theory of Kolmogorov complexity and randomness.


Variational Learning in Mixed-State Dynamic Graphical Models

  Many real-valued stochastic time-series are locally linear (Gassian), but
globally non-linear. For example, the trajectory of a human hand gesture can be
viewed as a linear dynamic system driven by a nonlinear dynamic system that
represents muscle actions. We present a mixed-state dynamic graphical model in
which a hidden Markov model drives a linear dynamic system. This combination
allows us to model both the discrete and continuous causes of trajectories such
as human gestures. The number of computations needed for exact inference is
exponential in the sequence length, so we derive an approximate variational
inference technique that can also be used to learn the parameters of the
discrete and continuous models. We show how the mixed-state model and the
variational technique can be used to classify human hand gestures made with a
computer mouse.


The Moon turns out to be the perfect object to use the linear elasticity
  theory

  The applicability of the linear theory of elasticity to the Moon has been
studied. As a criterion was taken the smallness of the strain tensor. The
elastic moduli are obtained from the data of the project "Apollo". The pressure
was calculated in the framework of the model of a homogeneous solid sphere
under the action of its own gravity. The strain tensor trace is of the order
$0.02$, which indicates the applicability.
  The strain tensor in the body of the Moon is calculated taking into account
the self-gravity and the Earth's tidal potential. Respectively the free energy
density is calculated. Since the axis of the Moon rotation has its own non-zero
declination to the ecliptic plane, the tidal potential variations take place
during the rotation of the Moon around the Earth.
  The estimation of the corresponding free energy density variations are made.
Their dependence on the depth exhibit qualitative agreement with the data of
depth dependence in the energy of deep moonquakes obtained in the project
"Apollo."
  Integral estimations of variations in the free energy for the year shows that
it is many orders of magnitude greater than estimates of energy for the year of
deep moonquakes energy. Thus offering an answer to the fundamental question:
where is the source of energy released in the deep moonquakes.


Unsupervised Domain Adaptation with Copula Models

  We study the task of unsupervised domain adaptation, where no labeled data
from the target domain is provided during training time. To deal with the
potential discrepancy between the source and target distributions, both in
features and labels, we exploit a copula-based regression framework. The
benefits of this approach are two-fold: (a) it allows us to model a broader
range of conditional predictive densities beyond the common exponential family,
(b) we show how to leverage Sklar's theorem, the essence of the copula
formulation relating the joint density to the copula dependency functions, to
find effective feature mappings that mitigate the domain mismatch. By
transforming the data to a copula domain, we show on a number of benchmark
datasets (including human emotion estimation), and using different regression
models for prediction, that we can achieve a more robust and accurate
estimation of target labels, compared to recently proposed feature
transformation (adaptation) methods.


Magnetic Field-Induced Fano Profiles in the Absorption Coefficient of
  Semiconductors

  A strongly asymmetric, Fano-like resonance profile has been found for
magneto-absorption in the states of hot free electron-hole pairs scattered by
defects in bulk semiconductors. The renormalization of the absorption profile,
compared to that expected from the bare density of states in a high magnetic
field, follows from a quasi-one-dimensional character of electronic
excitations. The results are valid for absorption by the electronic states of
large Landau quantum number where the Coulomb interaction should play a minor
role. The resonance shape is in a good qualitattive agreement with experimental
observations.


Nuclear Moments and Electron Density Functionals in Atoms

  An electron density functional approach for the calculation of the nuclear
multipole moments is presented. The electronic matrix elements entering the
experimentally observed hyperfine electron-nucleus interaction constants in
atoms are expressed in terms of the electron density functionals of the charge
or spin distributions. In principle, the construction of the charge or spin
distribution density functionals can be obtained by means of every relativistic
or non-relativistic quantum-mechanical or DFT method. The electronic matrix
elements for all the electronic operators of the existing Hamiltonians of
hyperfine electron-nuclear interactions are considered.


Jet Finslerian geometry of the conformal Minkowski metric

  The paper develops the Finsler-like geometry on the 1-jet space for the jet
conformal Minkowski (JCM) metric, which naturally extends the Minkowski metric
in the Chernov-Pavlov framework. To this aim there are determined the nonlinear
connection, distinguished (d-) Cartan linear connection, d-torsions and
d-curvatures. The field geometrical gravitational and electromagnetic d-models
based on the JCM metric are discussed.


Generalised hydrodynamic reductions of the kinetic equation for soliton
  gas

  We derive generalised multi-flow hydrodynamic reductions of the nonlocal
kinetic equation for a soliton gas and investigate their structure. These
reductions not only provide further insight into the properties of the new
kinetic equation but also could prove to be representatives of a novel class of
integrable systems of hydrodynamic type, beyond the conventional
semi-Hamiltonian framework.


D-MFVI: Distributed Mean Field Variational Inference using Bregman ADMM

  Bayesian models provide a framework for probabilistic modelling of complex
datasets. However, many of such models are computationally demanding especially
in the presence of large datasets. On the other hand, in sensor network
applications, statistical (Bayesian) parameter estimation usually needs
distributed algorithms, in which both data and computation are distributed
across the nodes of the network. In this paper we propose a general framework
for distributed Bayesian learning using Bregman Alternating Direction Method of
Multipliers (B-ADMM). We demonstrate the utility of our framework, with Mean
Field Variational Bayes (MFVB) as the primitive for distributed Matrix
Factorization (MF) and distributed affine structure from motion (SfM).


Zero-range potentials with Inner structure: fitting parameters for
  resonance scattering

  The solution of the classical Fermi problem of low-energy neutron scattering
by nuclei, when the excitations of the nuclei in scattering processes are taken
into account, is found by the method of zero-range potentials with inner
structure. This model is a generalization of the Fermi zero-range potential
obtained by adding a non-trivial inner Hamiltonian and inner space with
indefinite metric. We propose a general principle of analyticity of the
Caley-transform of the S-scattering matrix, written as a function of wave
number. This permits us to evaluate all parameters of the model, including the
indefinite metric tensor of the inner space, once the spectrum of the inner
Hamiltonian, the scattering length and the effective radious are chosen.


Quaternionic Analysis and the Algebrodynamics

  We present the ``algebrodynamical'' approach to field-particle theory based
on a nonlinear generalization of the Cauchy-Riemann conditions to
non-commutative algebras of quaternion-like type. For complex quaternions the
theory is Lorentz invariant and naturally carries some gauge and twistor
structures. Point- and string-like singularities are considered as
particle-like formations; their electric charge is ``self-quantized''. A novel
``causal Minkowski geometry with additional phase'' is presented that is
induced by the structure of primordial biquaternion algebra. On this
geometrical background a self-consistent algebraic dynamics of singularities
(``ensemble of dublicons'') is briefly discussed.


Relativistic Non-Thermal Bremsstrahlung Radiation

  By applying a method of virtual quanta we derive formulae for relativistic
non-thermal bremsstrahlung radiation from relativistic electrons as well as
from protons and heavier particles with power-law momentum distribution $N(p)dp
= k p^{-q} dp.$ We show that emission which originates from an electron
scattering on an ion, represents the most significant component of relativistic
non-thermal bremsstrahlung. Radiation from an ion scattering on electron, known
as inverse bremsstrahlung, is shown to be negligible in overall non-thermal
bremsstrahlung emission. These results arise from theory refinement, where we
introduce the dependence of relativistic kinetic energy of an incident
particle, upon the energy of scattered photon. In part, it is also a
consequence of a different mass of particles and relativistic effects.


Magnetic-field-enhanced outgoing excitonic resonance in multi-phonon
  Raman scattering from polar semiconductors

  A combined scattering mechanism involving the states of free electron-hole
pairs (exciton continuum) and discrete excitons as intermediate states in the
multi-phonon Raman scattering leads to (1) a strong increase of the scattering
efficiency in the presence of a high magnetic field and to (2) an outgoing
excitonic resonance: the two features are not compatible when only free pairs
(leading to a strong increase of the scattering efficiency under the applied
magnetic field) or discrete excitons (resulting in the outgoing resonance at
the excitonic gap) are taken into account.


Learning Hypergraph Labeling for Feature Matching

  This study poses the feature correspondence problem as a hypergraph node
labeling problem. Candidate feature matches and their subsets (usually of size
larger than two) are considered to be the nodes and hyperedges of a hypergraph.
A hypergraph labeling algorithm, which models the subset-wise interaction by an
undirected graphical model, is applied to label the nodes (feature
correspondences) as correct or incorrect. We describe a method to learn the
cost function of this labeling algorithm from labeled examples using a
graphical model training algorithm. The proposed feature matching algorithm is
different from the most of the existing learning point matching methods in
terms of the form of the objective function, the cost function to be learned
and the optimization method applied to minimize it. The results on standard
datasets demonstrate how learning over a hypergraph improves the matching
performance over existing algorithms, notably one that also uses higher order
information without learning.


Heteroscedastic Conditional Ordinal Random Fields for Pain Intensity
  Estimation from Facial Images

  We propose a novel method for automatic pain intensity estimation from facial
images based on the framework of kernel Conditional Ordinal Random Fields
(KCORF). We extend this framework to account for heteroscedasticity on the
output labels(i.e., pain intensity scores) and introduce a novel dynamic
features, dynamic ranks, that impose temporal ordinal constraints on the static
ranks (i.e., intensity scores). Our experimental results show that the proposed
approach outperforms state-of-the art methods for sequence classification with
ordinal data and other ordinal regression models. The approach performs
significantly better than other models in terms of Intra-Class Correlation
measure, which is the most accepted evaluation measure in the tasks of facial
behaviour intensity estimation.


Giant field enhancement in high-index dielectric subwavelength particles

  Besides purely academic interest, giant field enhancement within
subwavelength particles at light scattering of a plane electromagnetic wave is
important for numerous applications ranging from telecommunications to medicine
and biology. In this paper, we experimentally demonstrate the enhancement of
the intensity of the magnetic field in a high-index dielectric cylinder at the
proximity of the dipolar Mie resonances by more than two orders of magnitude
for both the TE and TM polarizations of the incident wave. We present a
complete theoretical explanation of the effect and show that the phenomenon is
very general - it should be observed for any high-index particles. The results
explain the huge enhancement of nonlinear effects observed recently in optics,
suggesting a new landscape for all-dielectric nonlinear nanoscale photonics.


Deep Structured Learning for Facial Action Unit Intensity Estimation

  We consider the task of automated estimation of facial expression intensity.
This involves estimation of multiple output variables (facial action units ---
AUs) that are structurally dependent. Their structure arises from statistically
induced co-occurrence patterns of AU intensity levels. Modeling this structure
is critical for improving the estimation performance; however, this performance
is bounded by the quality of the input features extracted from face images. The
goal of this paper is to model these structures and estimate complex feature
representations simultaneously by combining conditional random field (CRF)
encoded AU dependencies with deep learning. To this end, we propose a novel
Copula CNN deep learning approach for modeling multivariate ordinal variables.
Our model accounts for $ordinal$ structure in output variables and their
$non$-$linear$ dependencies via copula functions modeled as cliques of a CRF.
These are jointly optimized with deep CNN feature encoding layers using a newly
introduced balanced batch iterative training algorithm. We demonstrate the
effectiveness of our approach on the task of AU intensity estimation on two
benchmark datasets. We show that joint learning of the deep features and the
target output structure results in significant performance gains compared to
existing deep structured models for analysis of facial expressions.


Multi-layer Ti-based Coating Obtained by Arc PVD Method

  We report the obtaining and primary studies of ~ 250microns thick multi-layer
Ti-based protective coating deposited at high cooling rate from substance
generated by cathode arc discharge in vacuum. High adhesion to steel substrate
was attained through prior Arc plasma generator cleaning and successive Ion
Bombardment method. All three arc-generated fractions including mainly droplet,
vapour and ions have been utilised to form the coating. Obtained coating
features pore-free, least defects and high hardness which, besides N presence,
supposed to result from mainly martensitic transformations occurred at the
presence of Nitrogen. Two intermediate thin layers of Cu of few microns were
achieved to insert within coating presumably to reduce overall elastic modulus
of the material.


Fast ADMM Algorithm for Distributed Optimization with Adaptive Penalty

  We propose new methods to speed up convergence of the Alternating Direction
Method of Multipliers (ADMM), a common optimization tool in the context of
large scale and distributed learning. The proposed method accelerates the speed
of convergence by automatically deciding the constraint penalty needed for
parameter consensus in each iteration. In addition, we also propose an
extension of the method that adaptively determines the maximum number of
iterations to update the penalty. We show that this approach effectively leads
to an adaptive, dynamic network topology underlying the distributed
optimization. The utility of the new penalty update schemes is demonstrated on
both synthetic and real data, including a computer vision application of
distributed structure from motion.


Multi-Cue Structure Preserving MRF for Unconstrained Video Segmentation

  Video segmentation is a stepping stone to understanding video context. Video
segmentation enables one to represent a video by decomposing it into coherent
regions which comprise whole or parts of objects. However, the challenge
originates from the fact that most of the video segmentation algorithms are
based on unsupervised learning due to expensive cost of pixelwise video
annotation and intra-class variability within similar unconstrained video
classes. We propose a Markov Random Field model for unconstrained video
segmentation that relies on tight integration of multiple cues: vertices are
defined from contour based superpixels, unary potentials from temporal smooth
label likelihood and pairwise potentials from global structure of a video.
Multi-cue structure is a breakthrough to extracting coherent object regions for
unconstrained videos in absence of supervision. Our experiments on VSB100
dataset show that the proposed model significantly outperforms competing
state-of-the-art algorithms. Qualitative analysis illustrates that video
segmentation result of the proposed model is consistent with human perception
of objects.


Discovering Characteristic Landmarks on Ancient Coins using
  Convolutional Networks

  In this paper, we propose a novel method to find characteristic landmarks on
ancient Roman imperial coins using deep convolutional neural network models
(CNNs). We formulate an optimization problem to discover class-specific regions
while guaranteeing specific controlled loss of accuracy. Analysis on
visualization of the discovered region confirms that not only can the proposed
method successfully find a set of characteristic regions per class, but also
the discovered region is consistent with human expert annotations. We also
propose a new framework to recognize the Roman coins which exploits
hierarchical structure of the ancient Roman coins using the state-of-the-art
classification power of the CNNs adopted to a new task of coin classification.
Experimental results show that the proposed framework is able to effectively
recognize the ancient Roman coins. For this research, we have collected a new
Roman coin dataset where all coins are annotated and consist of observe (head)
and reverse (tail) images.


Gaussian Process for Noisy Inputs with Ordering Constraints

  We study the Gaussian Process regression model in the context of training
data with noise in both input and output. The presence of two sources of noise
makes the task of learning accurate predictive models extremely challenging.
However, in some instances additional constraints may be available that can
reduce the uncertainty in the resulting predictive models. In particular, we
consider the case of monotonically ordered latent input, which occurs in many
application domains that deal with temporal data. We present a novel inference
and learning approach based on non-parametric Gaussian variational
approximation to learn the GP model while taking into account the new
constraints. The resulting strategy allows one to gain access to posterior
estimates of both the input and the output and results in improved predictive
performance. We compare our proposed models to state-of-the-art Noisy Input
Gaussian Process (NIGP) and other competing approaches on synthetic and real
sea-level rise data. Experimental results suggest that the proposed approach
consistently outperforms selected methods while, at the same time, reducing the
computational costs of learning and inference.


Intrinsic Non-stationary Covariance Function for Climate Modeling

  Designing a covariance function that represents the underlying correlation is
a crucial step in modeling complex natural systems, such as climate models.
Geospatial datasets at a global scale usually suffer from non-stationarity and
non-uniformly smooth spatial boundaries. A Gaussian process regression using a
non-stationary covariance function has shown promise for this task, as this
covariance function adapts to the variable correlation structure of the
underlying distribution. In this paper, we generalize the non-stationary
covariance function to address the aforementioned global scale geospatial
issues. We define this generalized covariance function as an intrinsic
non-stationary covariance function, because it uses intrinsic statistics of the
symmetric positive definite matrices to represent the characteristic length
scale and, thereby, models the local stochastic process. Experiments on a
synthetic and real dataset of relative sea level changes across the world
demonstrate improvements in the error metrics for the regression estimates
using our newly proposed approach.


Robust Time-Series Retrieval Using Probabilistic Adaptive Segmental
  Alignment

  Traditional pairwise sequence alignment is based on matching individual
samples from two sequences, under time monotonicity constraints. However, in
many application settings matching subsequences (segments) instead of
individual samples may bring in additional robustness to noise or local
non-causal perturbations. This paper presents an approach to segmental sequence
alignment that jointly segments and aligns two sequences, generalizing the
traditional per-sample alignment. To accomplish this task, we introduce a
distance metric between segments based on average pairwise distances and then
present a modified pair-HMM (PHMM) that incorporates the proposed distance
metric to solve the joint segmentation and alignment task. We also propose a
relaxation to our model that improves the computational efficiency of the
generic segmental PHMM. Our results demonstrate that this new measure of
sequence similarity can lead to improved classification performance, while
being resilient to noise, on a variety of sequence retrieval problems, from EEG
to motion sequence classification.


Cartoonish sketch-based face editing in videos using identity
  deformation transfer

  We address the problem of using hand-drawn sketches to create exaggerated
deformations to faces in videos, such as enlarging the shape or modifying the
position of eyes or mouth. This task is formulated as a 3D face model
reconstruction and deformation problem. We first recover the facial identity
and expressions from the video by fitting a face morphable model for each
frame. At the same time, user's editing intention is recognized from input
sketches as a set of facial modifications. Then a novel identity deformation
algorithm is proposed to transfer these facial deformations from 2D space to
the 3D facial identity directly while preserving the facial expressions. After
an optional stage for further refining the 3D face model, these changes are
propagated to the whole video with the modified identity. Both the user study
and experimental results demonstrate that our sketching framework can help
users effectively edit facial identities in videos, while high consistency and
fidelity are ensured at the same time.


End-to-end Learning for 3D Facial Animation from Raw Waveforms of Speech

  We present a deep learning framework for real-time speech-driven 3D facial
animation from just raw waveforms. Our deep neural network directly maps an
input sequence of speech audio to a series of micro facial action unit
activations and head rotations to drive a 3D blendshape face model. In
particular, our deep model is able to learn the latent representations of
time-varying contextual information and affective states within the speech.
Hence, our model not only activates appropriate facial action units at
inference to depict different utterance generating actions, in the form of lip
movements, but also, without any assumption, automatically estimates emotional
intensity of the speaker and reproduces her ever-changing affective states by
adjusting strength of facial unit activations. For example, in a happy speech,
the mouth opens wider than normal, while other facial units are relaxed; or in
a surprised state, both eyebrows raise higher. Experiments on a diverse
audiovisual corpus of different actors across a wide range of emotional states
show interesting and promising results of our approach. Being
speaker-independent, our generalized model is readily applicable to various
tasks in human-machine interaction and animation.


The Role of Data-driven Priors in Multi-agent Crowd Trajectory
  Estimation

  Trajectory interpolation, the process of filling-in the gaps and removing
noise from observed agent trajectories, is an essential task for the motion
inference in multi-agent setting. A desired trajectory interpolation method
should be robust to noise, changes in environments or agent densities, while
also being yielding realistic group movement behaviors. Such realistic
behaviors are, however, challenging to model as they require avoidance of
agent-agent or agent-environment collisions and, at the same time, seek
computational efficiency. In this paper, we propose a novel framework composed
of data-driven priors (local, global or combined) and an efficient optimization
strategy for multi-agent trajectory interpolation. The data-driven priors
implicitly encode the dependencies of movements of multiple agents and the
collision-avoiding desiderata, enabling elimination of costly pairwise
collision constraints and resulting in reduced computational complexity and
often improved estimation. Various combinations of priors and optimization
algorithms are evaluated in comprehensive simulated experiments. Our
experimental results reveal important insights, including the significance of
the global flow prior and the lesser-than-expected influence of data-driven
collision priors.


Unsupervised Multi-Target Domain Adaptation: An Information Theoretic
  Approach

  Unsupervised domain adaptation (uDA) models focus on pairwise adaptation
settings where there is a single, labeled, source and a single target domain.
However, in many real-world settings one seeks to adapt to multiple, but
somewhat similar, target domains. Applying pairwise adaptation approaches to
this setting may be suboptimal, as they fail to leverage shared information
among multiple domains. In this work we propose an information theoretic
approach for domain adaptation in the novel context of multiple target domains
with unlabeled instances and one source domain with labeled instances. Our
model aims to find a shared latent space common to all domains, while
simultaneously accounting for the remaining private, domain-specific factors.
Disentanglement of shared and private information is accomplished using a
unified information-theoretic approach, which also serves to establish a
stronger link between the latent representations and the observed data. The
resulting model, accompanied by an efficient optimization algorithm, allows
simultaneous adaptation from a single source to multiple target domains. We
test our approach on three challenging publicly-available datasets, showing
that it outperforms several popular domain adaptation methods.


Relevance Factor VAE: Learning and Identifying Disentangled Factors

  We propose a novel VAE-based deep auto-encoder model that can learn
disentangled latent representations in a fully unsupervised manner, endowed
with the ability to identify all meaningful sources of variation and their
cardinality. Our model, dubbed Relevance-Factor-VAE, leverages the total
correlation (TC) in the latent space to achieve the disentanglement goal, but
also addresses the key issue of existing approaches which cannot distinguish
between meaningful and nuisance factors of latent variation, often the source
of considerable degradation in disentanglement performance. We tackle this
issue by introducing the so-called relevance indicator variables that can be
automatically learned from data, together with the VAE parameters. Our model
effectively focuses the TC loss onto the relevant factors only by tolerating
large prior KL divergences, a desideratum justified by our semi-parametric
theoretical analysis. Using a suite of disentanglement metrics, including a
newly proposed one, as well as qualitative evidence, we demonstrate that our
model outperforms existing methods across several challenging benchmark
datasets.


Unsupervised Visual Domain Adaptation: A Deep Max-Margin Gaussian
  Process Approach

  In unsupervised domain adaptation, it is widely known that the target domain
error can be provably reduced by having a shared input representation that
makes the source and target domains indistinguishable from each other. Very
recently it has been studied that not just matching the marginal input
distributions, but the alignment of output (class) distributions is also
critical. The latter can be achieved by minimizing the maximum discrepancy of
predictors (classifiers). In this paper, we adopt this principle, but propose a
more systematic and effective way to achieve hypothesis consistency via
Gaussian processes (GP). The GP allows us to define/induce a hypothesis space
of the classifiers from the posterior distribution of the latent random
functions, turning the learning into a simple large-margin posterior separation
problem, far easier to solve than previous approaches based on adversarial
minimax optimization. We formulate a learning objective that effectively pushes
the posterior to minimize the maximum discrepancy. This is further shown to be
equivalent to maximizing margins and minimizing uncertainty of the class
predictions in the target domain, a well-established principle in classical
(semi-)supervised learning. Empirical results demonstrate that our approach is
comparable or superior to the existing methods on several benchmark domain
adaptation datasets.


Determining parameters of Moon's orbital and rotational motion from LLR
  observations using GRAIL and IERS-recommended models

  The aim of this work is to combine the model of orbital and rotational motion
of the Moon developed for DE430 with up-to-date astronomical, geodynamical, and
geo- and selenophysical models. The parameters of the orbit and physical
libration are determined in this work from LLR observations made at different
observatories in 1970-2013. Parameters of other models are taken from solutions
that were obtained independently from LLR.
  A new implementation of the DE430 lunar model, including the liquid core
equations, was done within the EPM ephemeris. The postfit residuals of LLR
observations make evident that the terrestrial models and solutions recommended
by the IERS Conventions are compatible with the lunar theory. That includes:
EGM2008 with conventional corrections and variations from solid and ocean
tides; displacement of stations due to solid and ocean loading tides; and
precession-nutation model. Usage of these models in the solution for LLR
observations has allowed us to reduce the number of parameters to be fit. The
fixed model of tidal variations of the geopotential has resulted in a lesser
value of Moon's extra eccentricity rate, as compared to the original DE430
model with two fit parameters.
  A mixed model of lunar gravitational potential was used, with some
coefficients determined from LLR observations, and other taken from the GL660b
solution.
  Solutions obtain accurate positions for the ranging stations and the 5
retroreflectors. Station motion is derived for sites with long data spans.
Dissipation is detected at the lunar fluid core-solid mantle boundary
demonstrating that a fluid core is present. Tidal dissipation is strong at both
Earth and Moon. Consequently, the lunar semimajor axis is expanding by 38.20
mm/yr, the tidal acceleration in mean longitude is -25.90 "/cy2, and the
eccentricity is increasing by 1.48e-11 each year.


Robust Performance-driven 3D Face Tracking in Long Range Depth Scenes

  We introduce a novel robust hybrid 3D face tracking framework from RGBD video
streams, which is capable of tracking head pose and facial actions without
pre-calibration or intervention from a user. In particular, we emphasize on
improving the tracking performance in instances where the tracked subject is at
a large distance from the cameras, and the quality of point cloud deteriorates
severely. This is accomplished by the combination of a flexible 3D shape
regressor and the joint 2D+3D optimization on shape parameters. Our approach
fits facial blendshapes to the point cloud of the human head, while being
driven by an efficient and rapid 3D shape regressor trained on generic RGB
datasets. As an on-line tracking system, the identity of the unknown user is
adapted on-the-fly resulting in improved 3D model reconstruction and
consequently better tracking performance. The result is a robust RGBD face
tracker, capable of handling a wide range of target scene depths, beyond those
that can be afforded by traditional depth or RGB face trackers. Lastly, since
the blendshape is not able to accurately recover the real facial shape, we use
the tracked 3D face model as a prior in a novel filtering process to further
refine the depth map for use in other tasks, such as 3D reconstruction.


Variable-state Latent Conditional Random Fields for Facial Expression
  Recognition and Action Unit Detection

  Automated recognition of facial expressions of emotions, and detection of
facial action units (AUs), from videos depends critically on modeling of their
dynamics. These dynamics are characterized by changes in temporal phases
(onset-apex-offset) and intensity of emotion expressions and AUs, the
appearance of which may vary considerably among target subjects, making the
recognition/detection task very challenging. The state-of-the-art Latent
Conditional Random Fields (L-CRF) framework allows one to efficiently encode
these dynamics through the latent states accounting for the temporal
consistency in emotion expression and ordinal relationships between its
intensity levels, these latent states are typically assumed to be either
unordered (nominal) or fully ordered (ordinal). Yet, such an approach is often
too restrictive. For instance, in the case of AU detection, the goal is to
discriminate between the segments of an image sequence in which this AU is
active or inactive. While the sequence segments containing activation of the
target AU may better be described using ordinal latent states, the inactive
segments better be described using unordered (nominal) latent states, as no
assumption can be made about their underlying structure (since they can contain
either neutral faces or activations of non-target AUs). To address this, we
propose the variable-state L-CRF (VSL-CRF) model that automatically selects the
optimal latent states for the target image sequence. To reduce the model
overfitting either the nominal or ordinal latent states, we propose a novel
graph-Laplacian regularization of the latent states. Our experiments on three
public expression databases show that the proposed model achieves better
generalization performance compared to traditional L-CRFs and other related
state-of-the-art models.


Generative Adversarial Talking Head: Bringing Portraits to Life with a
  Weakly Supervised Neural Network

  This paper presents Generative Adversarial Talking Head (GATH), a novel deep
generative neural network that enables fully automatic facial expression
synthesis of an arbitrary portrait with continuous action unit (AU)
coefficients. Specifically, our model directly manipulates image pixels to make
the unseen subject in the still photo express various emotions controlled by
values of facial AU coefficients, while maintaining her personal
characteristics, such as facial geometry, skin color and hair style, as well as
the original surrounding background. In contrast to prior work, GATH is purely
data-driven and it requires neither a statistical face model nor image
processing tricks to enact facial deformations. Additionally, our model is
trained from unpaired data, where the input image, with its auxiliary identity
label taken from abundance of still photos in the wild, and the target frame
are from different persons. In order to effectively learn such model, we
propose a novel weakly supervised adversarial learning framework that consists
of a generator, a discriminator, a classifier and an action unit estimator. Our
work gives rise to template-and-target-free expression editing, where still
faces can be effortlessly animated with arbitrary AU coefficients provided by
the user.


Tailoring high temperature quasi-two-dimensional superconductivity

  We report the first observation of superconductivity in heterostructure
consisting of an insulating ferroelectric film (Ba$_{0.8}$Sr$_{0.2}$TiO$_3$) on
an insulator single crystal in [001] orientation (La$_2$CuO$_4$), created by
magnetron sputtering on a non-atomically-flat surface with inhomogeneities of
the order of 1-2 nm. In this heterostructure the superconducting phase
transition temperature Tc gets as high as 30K. It has been shown experimentally
that it is possible to create a high-T$_c$ quasi-two-dimensional
superconductivity (HTq2DSC) by a relatively simple method at the boundary of
the ferroelectric and parent compound of the high temperature superconductor
(PCHTSC). In this case it becomes possible to create HTq2DSC on a
non-atomically-flat surface. This highly robust phenomenon is confined within
the interface area. If a weak magnetic field is applied perpendicularly to the
interface of the heterostructure, a resistance appears. That confirms a
quasi-two-dimensional nature of the superconductive state. The proposed concept
promises ferroelectrically controlled interface superconductivity which offers
the possibility of novel design of electronic devices.


Report of the IAU Commission 4 Working Group on Standardizing Access to
  Ephemerides and File Format Specification

  The IAU Commission 4 Working Group on Standardizing Access to Ephemerides
recommends the use of the Spacecraft and Planet Kernel (SPK) format as a
standard format for the position ephemerides of planets and other natural solar
system bodies, and the use of the Planetary Constants Kernel (PCK) format for
the orientation of these bodies. It further recommends that other supporting
data be stored in a text PCK. These formats were developed for use by the SPICE
Toolkit by the Navigation and Ancillary Information Facility of NASA's Jet
Propulsion Laboratory (JPL). The CALCEPH library developed by the Institut de
mecanique celeste de calcul des ephemerides (IMCCE) is also able to make use of
these files. High accuracy ephemerides available in files conforming to the SPK
and PCK formats include: the Development Ephemerides (DE) from JPL, Integrateur
Numerique Planetaire de l'Observatoire de Paris (INPOP) from IMCCE, and the
Ephemerides Planets and the Moon (EPM), developed by the Institute for Applied
Astronomy (IAA). The bulk of this report is a description of the portion of PCK
and SPK formats required for these ephemerides. New SPK and PCK data types,
both called Type 20: Chebyshev (Velocity Only), have been added. Other changes
to the specification are (i) a new object identification number for coordinate
time ephemerides and (ii) a set of three new data types that use the TCB rather
than the TDB time scale for the ephemerides, but are otherwise identical to
their TDB versions.


Exploring Extreme Space Weather Factors of Exoplanetary Habitability

  It is currently unknown how common life is on exoplanets, or how long planets
can remain viable for life. To date, we have a superficial notion of
habitability, a necessary first step, but so far lacking an understanding of
the detailed interaction between stars and planets over geological timescales,
dynamical evolution of planetary systems, and atmospheric evolution on planets
in other systems. A planet mass, net insolation, and atmospheric composition
alone are insufficient to determine the probability that life on a planet could
arise or be detected. The latter set of planetary considerations, among others,
underpin the concept of the habitable zone (HZ), defined as the circumstellar
region where standing bodies of liquid water could be supported on the surface
of a rocky planet. However, stars within the same spectral class are often
treated in the same way in HZ studies, without any regard for variations in
activity among individual stars. Such formulations ignore differences in how
nonthermal emission and magnetic energy of transient events in different stars
affect the ability of an exoplanet to retain its atmosphere.In the last few
years there has been a growing appreciation that the atmospheric chemistry, and
even retention of an atmosphere in many cases, depends critically on the
high-energy radiation and particle environments around these stars. Indeed,
recent studies have shown stellar activity and the extreme space weather, such
as that created by the frequent flares and coronal mass ejections (CMEs) from
the active stars and young Sun, may have profoundly affected the chemistry and
climate and thus habitability of the early Earth and terrestrial type
exoplanets. The goal of this white paper is to identify and describe promising
key research goals to aid the field of the exoplanetary habitability for the
next 20 years.


