Computers Should Be Uniters Not Dividers: A Vision of Computer-Enhanced
  Happy Future

  This manifesto provides a vision of how computers can be used to bring people
together, to enhance people's use of their natural creativity, and thus, make
them happier.


Ideas Behind Kolmogorov Complexity and Related Kolmogorov's Ideas about
  The Physical Impossibility of Large Integers: How Their Formalization Can
  Help in Foundations of Physics

  In addition to the equations, physicists use the following additional
difficult-to-formalize property: that the initial conditions and the value of
the parameters must not be abnormal. We will describe a natural formalization
of this property, and show that this formalization in good accordance with
theoretical physics. At present, this formalization has been mainly applied to
the foundations of physics. However, potentially, more practical applications
are possible.


An operationalistic reformulation of Einstein's equivalence principle

  The Einstein's equivalence principle is formulated in terms of the accuracy
of measurements and its dependence of the size of the area of measurement. It
is shown that different refinements of the statement 'the spacetime is locally
flat' lead to different conculsions about the spacetime geometry.


Dimension Compactification -- a Possible Explanation for Superclusters
  and for Empirical Evidence Usually Interpreted as Dark Matter

  According to modern quantum physics, at the microlevel, the dimension of
space-time is at least 11; we only observe 4 dimensions because the others are
compactified: the size along each of the other dimensions is much smaller than
the macroscale. There is no universally accepted explanation of why exactly 4
dimensions remain at the microscopic level. A natural suggestion is: maybe
there is no fundamental reason why exactly 4 dimensions should remain, maybe
when we go to even larger scales, some of the 4 dimensions will be compactified
as well? In this paper, we explore the consequences of the compactification
suggestion, and we show that -- on the qualitative level -- these consequences
have actually been already observed: as superclusters and as evidence that is
usually interpreted as justifying dark matter. Thus, we get a new possible
explanation of both superclusters and dark matter evidence -- via dimension
compactification.


Kaluza-Klein 5D Ideas Made Fully Geometric

  After the 1916 success of General relativity that explained gravity by adding
time as a fourth dimension, physicists have been trying to explain other
physical fields by adding extra dimensions. In 1921, Kaluza and Klein has shown
that under certain conditions like cylindricity ($\partial g_{ij}/\partial
x^5=0$), the addition of the 5th dimension can explain the electromagnetic
field. The problem with this approach is that while the model itself is
geometric, conditions like cylindricity are not geometric. This problem was
partly solved by Einstein and Bergman who proposed, in their 1938 paper, that
the 5th dimension is compactified into a small circle $S^1$ so that in the
resulting cylindric 5D space-time $R^4\times S^1$ the dependence on $x^5$ is
not macroscopically noticeable. We show that if, in all definitions of vectors,
tensors, etc., we replace $R^4$ with $R^4\times S^1$, then conditions like
cylindricity automatically follow -- i.e., these conditions become fully
geometric.


On Selecting a Conjunction Operation in Probabilistic Soft Logic

  Probabilistic Soft Logic has been proposed and used in several applications
as an efficient way to deal with inconsistency, uncertainty and relational
representation. In several applications, this approach has led to an adequate
description of the corresponding human reasoning. In this paper, we provide a
theoretical explanation for one of the semi-heuristic choices made in this
approach: namely, we explain the choice of the corresponding conjunction
operations. Our explanation leads to a more general family of operations which
may be used in future applications of probabilistic soft logic.


A New Kalman Filter Model for Nonlinear Systems Based on Ellipsoidal
  Bounding

  In this paper, a new filter model called set-membership Kalman filter for
nonlinear state estimation problems was designed, where both random and unknown
but bounded uncertainties were considered simultaneously in the discrete-time
system. The main loop of this algorithm includes one prediction step and one
correction step with measurement information, and the key part in each loop is
to solve an optimization problem. The solution of the optimization problem
produces the optimal estimation for the state, which is bounded by ellipsoids.
The new filter was applied on a highly nonlinear benchmark example and a
two-dimensional simulated trajectory estimation problem, in which the new
filter behaved better compared with extended Kalman filter results. Sensitivity
of the algorithm was discussed in the end.


