Zhu's Algebra of a C1-cofinite Vertex Algebra

  For a C1-cofinite vertex algebra V, we give an efficient way to calculate
Zhu's algebra A(V) of V with respect to its C1-generators and relations. We use
two examples to explain how this method works.


Parton recombination effect in polarized parton distributions

  Parton recombination corrections to the standard spin-dependent
Altarelli-Parisi evolution equation are considered in a nonlinear evolution
equation. The properties of this recombination equation and its relation with
the spin-averaged form are discussed.


An Energy Reducing Flow for Multiple-Valued Functions

  By the method of discrete Morse flows, we construct an energy reducing
multiple-valued function flow. The flow we get is Holder continuous with
respect to the L-2 norm. We also give another way of constructing flows in some
special cases, where the flow we get behaves like ordinary heat flow.


A Theorem on Frequency Function for Multiple-Valued Dirichlet Minimizing
  Functions

  This paper discusses the frequency function of multiple-valued Dirichlet
minimizing functions in the special case when the domain and range are both two
dimensional. It shows that the frequency function must be of value k/2 for some
nonnegative integer k. Futhermore, by looking at the blowing-up functions, we
characterize the local behavior of the original Dirichlet minimizing function.


Are valence quarks rotating?

  We suggest to compare the deep inelastic scattering structure functions
measured in the unpolarized charged-lepton scattering off a transversely
polarized proton and off a longitudinally polarized proton at larger Bjorken
variable $x$, one may get a direct evidence concerning the valence quark
orbital angular momentum in the proton. This possible rotating effect is
estimated by using a proton-ensemble model.


Improved Bethe-Heitler formula

  The bremsstrahlung cross section of electron in the atomic electric field is
re-derived using the time ordered perturbative theory. The results are compared
with the Bethe-Heitler formula. We indicate that both the TOPT-description and
a soft version for the bremsstrahlung process predict a strong screening
parameter-dependent cross section, which is missed by previous bremsstrahlung
theory.


Spin 3/2 Pentaquarks

  We investigate the possible existence of the spin 3/2 pentaquark states using
interpolating currents with K-N color-octet structure in the framework of QCD
finite energy sum rule (FESR). We pay special attention to the convergence of
the operator product expansion.


Rational vertex operator algebras are finitely generated

  It is proved that any vertex operator algebra for which the image of the
Virasoro element in Zhu's algebra is algebraic over complex numbers is finitely
generated. In particular, any vertex operator algebra with a finite dimensional
Zhu's algebra is finitely generated. As a result, any rational vertex operator
algebra is finitely generated.


Hurwitz-Hodge integral identities from the cut-and-join equation

  In this paper, we present some Hurwitz-Hodge integral identities which are
derived from the Laplace transform of the cut-and-join equation for the
orbifold Hurwitz numbers. As an application, we prove a conjecture on
Hurwitz-Hodge integral proposed by J. Zhou in 2008.


A new modified Altarelli-Parisi evolution equation with parton
  recombination in proton

  The coefficients of the nonlinear terms in a modified Altarelli-Parisi
evolution equation with parton recombination are determined in the leading
logarithmic ($Q^2$) approximation. The results are valid in the whole $x$
region and contain the translation $GG\to q\bar q$, which is inhibited in the
double leading logarithmic approximation. The comparisons of the new evolution
equation with the Gribov-Levin-Ryskin equation are presented.


Contributions of gluon recombination to saturation phenomena

  Parton distributions in the small $x$ region are numerically predicted by
using a modified DGLAP equation with the GRV-like input distributions. We find
that gluon recombination at twist-4 level obviously suppresses the rapid growth
of parton densities with $x$ decrease. We show that before the saturation scale
$Q^2_s$ is reached, saturation and partial saturation appear in the small $x$
behavior of parton distributions in nucleus and free proton, respectively. The
antishadowing contributions to the saturation phenomena are also discussed.


A unity of QCD evolution dynamics at small $x$ region

  The DGLAP, BFKL, modified DGLAP and modified BFKL equations are constructed
in a unified partonic framework. The antishadowing effect in the recombination
process is emphasized, which leads to two different small $x$ behaviors of
gluon distribution. In the meantime, the BFKL equation and modified DGLAP
equation are viewed as the corrections of the initial gluon correlations to the
evolution dynamics at twist-2 and twist-4, respectively. A partonic explanation
of Regge theory for the BFKL dynamics and the relation of the BFKL dynamics
with the helicity configuration of the initial gluons are presented.


A geometrizing higher twist effect on nuclear target

  The higher twist effects in deep inelastic scattering on the nuclear target
are studied using time ordered perturbation theory. We showed that the
collinear rescattering of the outgoing quark on the extra nucleons via the
contacting gluon-pair is dominant in nuclear size-dependent effects. The
Qiu-Vitev resummation is proved by using the geometric properties of the higher
twist amplitudes. The leading contributions of nuclear-enhanced effect to the
DGLAP evolution equation are resummed in the same framework.


Strong decays of $D_{sJ}(2317)$ and $D_{sJ}(2460)$

  With the identification of ($D_{sJ}(2317), D_{sJ}(2460)$) as the ($0^+$,
$1^+$) doublet in the heavy quark effective field theory, we derive the light
cone QCD sum rule for the coupling of eta meson with $D_{sJ}(2317) D_s $ and
$D_{sJ}(2460) D_s^{*} $. Through $\eta-\pi^0$ mixing we calculate their pionic
decay widths, which are consistent with the experimental values (or upper
limits). Combining the radiative decay widths derived by Colangelo, Fazio and
Ozpineci in the same framework, we conclude that the decay patterns of
$D_{sJ}(2317, 2460)$ strongly support their interpretation as ordinary $c \bar
s$ mesons.


Antishadowing effects in the unitarized BFKL equation

  A unitarized BFKL equation incorporating shadowing and antishadowing
corrections of the gluon recombination is proposed. This equation reduces to
the Balitsky-Kovchegov evolution equation near the saturation limit. We find
that the antishadowing effects have a sizeable influence on the gluon
distribution function in the preasymptotic regime.


A new perspective on gluon distribution at small x

  The corrections of the gluon fusion to the BFKL equation in a unified
partonic framework are studied. This modified BFKL equation predicts a stronger
shadowing, which suppresses the gluon density and even leads to the gluon
disappearance below the saturation region. We suggest that this unexpected
effect is caused by a possible chaotic solution of the new equation.


Nuclear Shadowing and Antishadowing in a Unitarized BFKL Equation

  The nuclear shadowing and antishadowing effects are explained by a unitarized
BFKL equation. The $Q^2$- and $x$-variations of the nuclear parton
distributions are detailed based on the level of the unintegrated gluon
distribution. In particular, the asymptotical behavior of the unintegrated
gluon distribution near the saturation limit in nuclear targets is studied. Our
results in the nuclear targets are insensitive to the input distributions if
the parameters are fixed by the data of a free proton.


Can a chaos term in the QCD evolution equation restrain high-energy
  collider physics?

  We indicate that the random aperiodic oscillation of the gluon distributions
in a modified BFKL equation has the positive Lyapunov exponents. This first
example of chaos in QCD evolution equations, raises the sudden disappearance of
the gluon distributions at a critical small value of the Bjorken variable $x$
and may stop the increase of the new particle events in a ultra high energy
hadron collider.


Can a chaotic solution in the QCD evolution equation restrain
  high-energy collider physics?

  We indicate that the random aperiodic oscillation of the gluon distributions
in a modified Balisky--Fadin--Kuraev--Lipatov (BFKL) equation has positive
Lyapunov exponents. This first example of chaos in QCD evolution equations,
raises the sudden disappearance of the gluon distributions at a critical small
value of the Bjorken variable $x$ and may stop the increase of the new particle
events in an ultra high energy hadron collider.


Prediction for unintegrated parton distributions

  Unintegrated parton distributions in the proton and nucleus are predicted by
a modified DGLAP equation incorporating the shadowing corrections, which
include exact energy-momentum conservation in each splitting and fusion
vertices. We find that the nuclear shadowing effects are obvious, although they
are far from the saturation limit. On the other hand, we point out that the
suppression of the unintegrated gluon distribution toward lower $k_t^2$ may
arise from the valence-like input rather than the saturation effects.


Particle multiplicities at LHC and deviations from limiting
  fragmentation

  The pseudorapidity density of charged particles produced at LHC collisions
are predicted by using two complementary production mechanisms with a set of
consistent integrated and unintegrated parton distributions. We discuss the
limiting fragmentation hypothesis and its possible violation, and we compare
our model with other partonic models.


A regularity theory for multiple-valued Dirichlet minimizing maps

  This paper discusses the regularity of multiple-valued Dirichlet minimizing
maps into the sphere. It shows that even at branched point, as long as the
normalized energy is small enough, we have the energy decay estimate. Combined
with the previous work by Chun-Chi Lin, we get our first estimate that m-2
dimensional Hausdorff measure of singular set is zero. Furthermore, by looking
at the tangent map and using dimension reduction argument, we show that the
singular set is at least of codimension 3.


Evidence of Different Formation Mechanisms for Hot versus Warm
  Super-Earths

  Using the Kepler planet sample from Buchhave et al. and the statistical
method clarified by Schlaufman, I show that the shorter-period super-Earths
have a different dependence on the host star metallicity from the longer-period
super-Earths, with the transition period being in the period range from 70 to
100 days. The hosts of shorter-period super-Earths are on average more
metal-rich than those of longer-period super-Earths. The existence of such a
transition period cannot be explained by any single theory of super-Earth
formation, suggesting that super-Earths have formed via at least two
mechanisms.


Nucleon spin structure III: Origins of the generalized
  Gerasimov-Drell-Hearn sum rule

  The generalized Gerasimov-Drell-Hearn (GDH) sum rule is understood based on
the polarized parton distributions of the proton with the higher twist
contributions. A simple parameterized formula is proposed to clearly present
the contributions of different components in proton to $\Gamma_1^p(Q^2)$. We
find that the contribution of quark helicity to $\Gamma_1^p(Q^2)$ is almost
constant ($\sim 0.123$); the twist-4 effect dominates the suppression of
$\Gamma_1^p(Q^2)$ at $Q^2<3GeV^2$, while the twist-6 effect arises a dramatic
change of $\Gamma_1^p(Q^2)$ at $Q^2<0.3 GeV^2$, it implies a possible extended
objects with size $0.2-0.3~ fm$ inside the proton.


Sudden transition from naked atom decay to dressed atom decay

  The studies on quantum open system play key roles not only in fundamental
problems in quantum mechanics but also in quantum computing and information
processes. Here we propose a scheme to use a one dimensional coupling cavity
array (CCA) as an artificial electromagnetic environment of a two-level atom.
For a finite length of CCA, we find that after a turning time the population of
excited state deviates suddenly from the exponential decay. We show that
physically this phenomena corresponds to a transition from a naked atom decay
to a dressed state decay. We hope that our finding will promote the studies on
quantum system with a finite size environment.


Looking for the gluon condensation signature in proton using the Earth
  limb gamma-ray spectra

  A new type of gamma ray spectrum is predicted in a general hadronic framework
if considering the gluon condensation effects in proton. The result presents
the power-law with a sharp break in the gamma ray spectra at the TeV-band. We
suggest to probe this GC-signature in the Earth limb gamma-ray spectra using
the DArk Matter Particle Explorer and the CALorimetric Electron Telescope on
orbit.


Projective and injective objects in symmetric categorical groups

  We prove that the 2-category of symmetric categorical groups have enough
projective and injective objects. This was conjectured by Bourn and Vitale in
2002 and was anounced recently by Fang Huang, Shao-Han Chen, Wei Chen and
Zhu-Jun Zheng in arXiv:1006.4677 with wrong proof.


Cryptanalysis and Improvement of Jiang et al.'s Smart Card Based Remote
  User Authentication Scheme

  The smart card based authentication protocols try to ensure secure and
authorized communication between remote entities. In 2012, Wei et al. presented
an improvement of Wu et al.'s two-factor authentication scheme for TMIS which
is proven vulnerable to off-line password guessing attack by Zhu. Zhu also
proposed a modified scheme to overcome with weakness of Wei et al.'s scheme,
although Lee and Liu showed the failure of his scheme to resist parallel
session attacks. Moreover, Lee and Liu introduced an improved scheme. We
analyze Wei et al.'s, Zhu's and Lee and Liu's schemes and identify that none of
the schemes resist on-line password guessing attack. Moreover, these schemes do
not present efficient login and password chance phase. We also show that how
inefficient password change phase causes denial of service attack. Further, we
propose an improved password based remote user authentication scheme with the
aim to eliminate all the drawbacks of previously presented schemes.


Could Interaction with Social Robots Facilitate Joint Attention of
  Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder?

  This research addressed whether interactions with social robots could
facilitate joint attention of the autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Two
conditions of initiators, namely 'Human' vs. 'Robot' were measured with 15
children with ASD and 15 age-matched typically developing (TD) children. Apart
from fixation and gaze transition, a new longest common subsequence (LCS)
approach was proposed to analyze eye-movement traces. Results revealed that
children with ASD showed deficits of joint attention. Compared to the human
agent, robot facilitate less fixations towards the targets, but it attracted
more attention and allowed the children to show gaze transition and to follow
joint attention logic. This results highlight both potential application of LCS
analysis on eye-tracking studies and of social robot to intervention.


The Possible $J^{PC}I^G=2^{++}2^+$ State X(1600)

  The interesting state X(1600) with $J^{PC}I^G=2^{++}2^+$ can't be a
conventional $q \bar q$ meson in the quark model. Using a mixed interpolating
current with different color configurations, we investigate the possible
existence of X(1600) in the framework of QCD finite energy sum rules. Our
results indicate that both the "hidden color" and coupled channel effects may
be quite important in the multiquark system. We propose several reactions to
look for this state.


Unparticle Physics and A_{FB}^b on the Z pole

  An attempt has been made to address the 3\sigma anomaly of the
forward-backward asymmetry of b quark in LEP data via an unparticle sector. For
most part of the parameter space except certain particular regions, the anomaly
could not be explained away plausibly, when constraints from other LEP
observables are taken into account.


Chemical Doping and Enhanced Solar Energy Conversion of Graphene/Silicon
  Junctions

  The effect of chemical doping of graphene films on the photovoltaic
properties of the graphene/silicon Schottky junction solar cells was
investigated. Thionyl chloride modification greatly enhanced the conductivity
of graphene film, resulting in a significant improvement in cell performance
with a 3-fold increase in conversion efficiency (up to 3.9%) and good
short-term stability.


XYZ States

  In the past decade, many new charmonium (or charmonium-like) and bottomonium
(or bottomonium-like) states were observed experimentally. I will review these
XYZ states which do not fit into the quark model spectrum easily.


General Monogamy Relation between Information-Theoretic Contextuality
  Inequalities

  We show that the perfect commutation graph is the sufficient tight condition
for admitting the noncontextual description of each observable set satisfying
it in the yes-no question scenario. With this condition, we propose a method
for proving the monogamy relation between two informationtheoretic
contextuality inequalities by decomposing the total commutation graph into
perfect subgraphs. The results offer a powerful tool to investigate the
contextuality and to understand quantum information theory. This theoretical
work can be experimentally verified in current laboratorial technology.


Social contagions on weighted networks

  We investigate critical behaviors of a social contagion model on weighted
networks. An edge-weight compartmental approach is applied to analyze the
weighted social contagion on strongly heterogenous networks with skewed degree
and weight distributions. We find that degree heterogeneity can not only alter
the nature of contagion transition from discontinuous to continuous but also
can enhance or hamper the size of adoption, depending on the unit transmission
probability. We also show that, the heterogeneity of weight distribution always
hinder social contagions, and does not alter the transition type.


Experimental Device-Independent Tests of Classical and Quantum Entropy

  In this paper, we report an experiment about the device-independent tests of
classical and quantum entropy based on a recent proposal [Phys. Rev. Lett. 115,
110501 (2015)], in which the states are encoded on the polarization of a
biphoton system and measured by the state tomography technology. We also
theoretically obtained the minimal quantum entropy for three widely used linear
dimension witnesses. The experimental results agree well with the theoretical
analysis, demonstrating that lower entropy is needed in quantum systems than
that in classical systems under given values of the dimension witness.


Occurrence of synchronized flow due to overtaking strategy in the
  Nagel-Schreckenberg model

  The Nagel-Schreckenberg model with overtaking strategy (NSOS) is proposed,
and numerical simulations are performed for both closed and open boundary
conditions. The fundamental diagram, space-time diagram, and spatial-temporal
distribution of speed are investigated. In order to identify the synchronized
flow state, both the correlation functions (autocorrelation and
cross-correlation) and the one-minute average flow rate vs. density diagram are
studied. All the results verify that synchronized flow does occur in our model.


Matching Using Sufficient Dimension Reduction for Causal Inference

  To estimate casual treatment effects, we propose a new matching approach
based on the reduced covariates obtained from sufficient dimension reduction.
Compared to the original covariates and the propensity score, which are
commonly used for matching in the literature, the reduced covariates are
estimable nonparametrically under a mild assumption on the original covariates,
and are sufficient and effective in imputing the missing potential outcomes.
Under the ignorability assumption, the consistency of the proposed approach
requires a weaker common support condition. In addition, the researchers are
allowed to use different reduced covariates to find matched subjects for
different treatment groups. We develop relative asymptotic results, and conduct
simulation studies as well as real data analysis to illustrate the usefulness
of the proposed approach.


Retrieval-Enhanced Adversarial Training for Neural Response Generation

  Dialogue systems are usually built on either generation-based or
retrieval-based approaches, yet they do not benefit from the advantages of
different models. In this paper, we propose a Retrieval-Enhanced Adversarial
Training (REAT) method for neural response generation. Distinct from existing
ap- proaches, the REAT method leverages an encoder-decoder framework in terms
of an adversarial training paradigm, while taking advantage of N-best response
candidates from a retrieval-based system to construct the discriminator. An
empirical study on a large scale public available benchmark dataset shows that
the REAT method significantly outper- forms the vanilla Seq2Seq model as well
as the conventional adversarial training approach.


Optical Flow Based Online Moving Foreground Analysis

  Obtained by moving object detection, the foreground mask result is unshaped
and can not be directly used in most subsequent processes. In this paper, we
focus on this problem and address it by constructing an optical flow based
moving foreground analysis framework. During the processing procedure, the
foreground masks are analyzed and segmented through two complementary
clustering algorithms. As a result, we obtain the instance-level information
like the number, location and size of moving objects. The experimental result
show that our method adapts itself to the problem and performs well enough for
practical applications.


Motion Control on Bionic Eyes: A Comprehensive Review

  Biology can provide biomimetic components and new control principles for
robotics. Developing a robot system equipped with bionic eyes is a difficult
but exciting task. Researchers have been studying the control mechanisms of
bionic eyes for many years and considerable models are available. In this
paper, control model and its implementation on robots for bionic eyes are
reviewed, which covers saccade, smooth pursuit, vergence, vestibule-ocular
reflex (VOR), optokinetic reflex (OKR) and eye-head coordination. What is more,
some problems and possible solutions in the field of bionic eyes are discussed
and analyzed. This review paper can be used as a guide for researchers to
identify potential research problems and solutions of the bionic eyes' motion
control.


All-Optical Control of Light Group Velocity with a Cavity Optomechanical
  System

  We theoretically demonstrate complete all-optical control of light group
velocity via a cavity optomechanical system composed of an optical cavity and a
mechanical resonator. The realization depends on no specific materials inside
the cavity, and the control of light group velocity stems from the interaction
between the signal light and the moving optical diffraction grating within the
cavity in analogy to the stimulated Brillouin scattering(SBS). Furthermore, we
show that a tunable switch from slow light to fast light can be achieved only
by simply adjusting the pump-cavity detuning. The scheme proposed here will
open a novel way to control light velocity by all-optical methods in
optomechanical systems.


Strong solutions for SPDE with locally monotone coefficients driven by
  Lévy noise

  Motivated by applications to a manifold of semilinear and quasilinear
stochastic partial differential equations (SPDEs) we establish the existence
and uniqueness of strong solutions to coercive and locally monotone SPDEs
driven by L\'{e}vy processes. We illustrate the main result of our paper by
showing how it can be applied to various types of SPDEs such as stochastic
reaction-diffusion equations, stochastic Burgers type equations, stochastic 2D
hydrodynamical systems and stochastic equations of non-Newtonian fluids, which
generalize many existing results in the literature.


Possible $J^{PC} = 0^{--}$ Charmonium-like State

  We study the possible charmonium-like states with $J^{PC}=0^{--}, 0^{-+}$
using the tetraquark interpolating currents with the QCD sum rules approach.
The extracted masses are around 4.5 GeV for the $0^{--}$ charmonium-like states
and 4.6 GeV for the $0^{-+}$ charmonium-like states while their
bottomonium-like analogues lie around 10.6 GeV. We also discuss the possible
decay, production and the experiment search of the $0^{--}$ charmonium-like
state.


Possible $J^{PC} = 0^{+-}$ Exotic State

  We study the possible exotic states with $J^{PC} = 0^{+-}$ using the
tetraquark interpolating currents with the QCD sum rule approach. The extracted
masses are around 4.85 GeV for the charmonium-like states and 11.25 GeV for the
bottomomium-like states. There is no working region for the light tetraquark
currents, which implies the light $0^{+-}$ state may not exist below 2 GeV.


Optimal Ternary Constant-Composition Codes with Weight Four and Distance
  Six

  The sizes of optimal constant-composition codes of weight three have been
determined by Chee, Ge and Ling with four cases in doubt. Group divisible codes
played an important role in their constructions. In this paper, we study the
problem of constructing optimal ternary constant-composition codes with Hamming
weight four and minimum distance six. The problem is solved with a small number
of lengths undetermined. The previously known results are those with code
length no greater than 10.


Large deviation principles for the stochastic quasi-geostrophic equation

  In this paper we establish the large deviation principle for the stochastic
quasi-geostrophic equation in the subcritical case with small multiplicative
noise. The proof is mainly based on the stochastic control and weak convergence
approach. Some analogous results are also obtained for the small time
asymptotics of the stochastic quasi-geostrophic equation.


Optimal Conventional Measurements for Quantum-Enhanced Interferometry

  A major obstacle to attain the fundamental precision limit of the phase
estimation in an interferometry is the identification and implementation of the
optimal measurement. Here we demonstrate that this can be accomplished by the
use of three conventional measurements among interferometers with Bayesian
estimation techniques. Conditions that hold for the precision limit to be
attained with these measurements are obtained by explicitly calculating the
Fisher information. Remarkably, these conditions are naturally satisfied in
most interferometric experiments. We apply our results to an experiment of
atomic spectroscopy and examine robustness of phase sensitivity for the
two-axis counter-twisted state suffering from detection noise.


Implementations of two-photon four-qubit Toffoli and Fredkin gates
  assisted by nitrogen-vacancy centers

  It is desirable to implement an efficient quantum information process
demanding fewer quantum resources. We designed two compact quantum circuits for
determinately implementing four-qubit Toffoli and Fredkin gates on
single-photon systems in both the polarization and spatial degrees of freedom
(DoFs) via diamond nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in resonators. The gates are
heralded by the electron spins associated with the diamond NV centers. In
contrast to the ones with one DoF, our implementations reduce the quantum
resource and are robust against the decoherence. Evaluations of fidelities and
efficiencies of our gates show that our schemes may be implemented with current
technology.


Weighted estimates for the multilinear maximal function on the upper
  half-spaces

  For a general dyadic grid, we give a Calder\'{o}n-Zygmund type decomposition,
which is the principle fact about the multilinear maximal function
$\mathfrak{M}$ on the upper half-spaces. Using the decomposition, we study the
boundedness of $\mathfrak{M}.$ We obtain a natural extension to the multilinear
setting of Muckenhoupt's weak-type characterization. We also partially obtain
characterizations of Muckenhoupt's strong-type inequalities with one weight.
Assuming the reverse H\"{o}lder's condition, we get a multilinear analogue of
Sawyer's two weight theorem. Moreover, we also get Hyt\"{o}nen-P\'{e}rez type
weighted estimates.


