Flexible and Approximate Computation through State-Space Reduction

  In the real world, insufficient information, limited computation resources,
and complex problem structures often force an autonomous agent to make a
decision in time less than that required to solve the problem at hand
completely. Flexible and approximate computations are two approaches to
decision making under limited computation resources. Flexible computation helps
an agent to flexibly allocate limited computation resources so that the overall
system utility is maximized. Approximate computation enables an agent to find
the best satisfactory solution within a deadline. In this paper, we present two
state-space reduction methods for flexible and approximate computation:
quantitative reduction to deal with inaccurate heuristic information, and
structural reduction to handle complex problem structures. These two methods
can be applied successively to continuously improve solution quality if more
computation is available. Our results show that these reduction methods are
effective and efficient, finding better solutions with less computation than
some existing well-known methods.


An efficient algorithm for finding all possible input nodes for
  controlling complex networks

  Understanding structural controllability of a complex network requires to
identify a Minimum Input nodes Set (MIS) of the network. It has been suggested
that finding an MIS is equivalent to computing a maximum matching of the
network, where the unmatched nodes constitute an MIS. However, maximum matching
of a network is often not unique, and finding all MISs may provide deep
insights to the controllability of the network. Finding all possible input
nodes, which form the union of all MISs, is computationally challenging for
large networks. Here we present an efficient enumerative algorithm for the
problem. The main idea is to modify a maximum matching algorithm to make it
efficient for finding all possible input nodes by computing only one MIS. We
rigorously proved the correctness of the new algorithm and evaluated its
performance on synthetic and large real networks. The experimental results
showed that the new algorithm ran several orders of magnitude faster than the
existing method on large real networks.


Identification of hybrid node and link communities in complex networks

  Identification of communities in complex networks has become an effective
means to analysis of complex systems. It has broad applications in diverse
areas such as social science, engineering, biology and medicine. Finding
communities of nodes and finding communities of links are two popular schemes
for network structure analysis. These schemes, however, have inherent drawbacks
and are often inadequate to properly capture complex organizational structures
in real networks. We introduce a new scheme and effective approach for
identifying complex network structures using a mixture of node and link
communities, called hybrid node-link communities. A central piece of our
approach is a probabilistic model that accommodates node, link and hybrid
node-link communities. Our extensive experiments on various real-world
networks, including a large protein-protein interaction network and a large
semantic association network of commonly used words, illustrated that the
scheme for hybrid communities is superior in revealing network characteristics.
Moreover, the new approach outperformed the existing methods for finding node
or link communities separately.


An Effective Algorithm for and Phase Transitions of the Directed
  Hamiltonian Cycle Problem

  The Hamiltonian cycle problem (HCP) is an important combinatorial problem
with applications in many areas. It is among the first problems used for
studying intrinsic properties, including phase transitions, of combinatorial
problems. While thorough theoretical and experimental analyses have been made
on the HCP in undirected graphs, a limited amount of work has been done for the
HCP in directed graphs (DHCP). The main contribution of this work is an
effective algorithm for the DHCP. Our algorithm explores and exploits the close
relationship between the DHCP and the Assignment Problem (AP) and utilizes a
technique based on Boolean satisfiability (SAT). By combining effective
algorithms for the AP and SAT, our algorithm significantly outperforms previous
exact DHCP algorithms, including an algorithm based on the award-winning
Concorde TSP algorithm. The second result of the current study is an
experimental analysis of phase transitions of the DHCP, verifying and refining
a known phase transition of the DHCP.


SAS+ Planning as Satisfiability

  Planning as satisfiability is a principal approach to planning with many
eminent advantages. The existing planning as satisfiability techniques usually
use encodings compiled from STRIPS. We introduce a novel SAT encoding scheme
(SASE) based on the SAS+ formalism. The new scheme exploits the structural
information in SAS+, resulting in an encoding that is both more compact and
efficient for planning. We prove the correctness of the new encoding by
establishing an isomorphism between the solution plans of SASE and that of
STRIPS based encodings. We further analyze the transition variables newly
introduced in SASE to explain why it accommodates modern SAT solving algorithms
and improves performance. We give empirical statistical results to support our
analysis. We also develop a number of techniques to further reduce the encoding
size of SASE, and conduct experimental studies to show the strength of each
individual technique. Finally, we report extensive experimental results to
demonstrate significant improvements of SASE over the state-of-the-art STRIPS
based encoding schemes in terms of both time and memory efficiency.


Quantum anomalous Hall multilayers grown by molecular beam epitaxy

  Quantum anomalous Hall (QAH) effect is a quantum Hall effect that occurs
without the need of external magnetic field. A system composed of multiple
parallel QAH layers is an effective high Chern number QAH insulator and the key
to the applications of the dissipationless chiral edge channels in low energy
consumption electronics. Such a QAH multilayer can also be engineered into
other exotic topological phases such as a magnetic Weyl semimetal with only one
pair of Weyl points. This work reports the first experimental realization of
QAH multilayers in the superlattices composed of magnetically doped
(Bi,Sb)$_2$Te$_3$ topological insulator and CdSe normal insulator layers grown
by molecular beam epitaxy. The obtained multilayer samples show quantized Hall
resistance $h/Ne$$^2$, where $h$ is the Planck's constant, $e$ is the
elementary charge and $N$ is the number of the magnetic topological insulator
layers, resembling a high Chern number QAH insulator.


Identifying network communities with a high resolution

  Community structure is an important property of complex networks. An
automatic discovery of such structure is a fundamental task in many
disciplines, including sociology, biology, engineering, and computer science.
Recently, several community discovery algorithms have been proposed based on
the optimization of a quantity called modularity (Q). However, the problem of
modularity optimization is NP-hard, and the existing approaches often suffer
from prohibitively long running time or poor quality. Furthermore, it has been
recently pointed out that algorithms based on optimizing Q will have a
resolution limit, i.e., communities below a certain scale may not be detected.
In this research, we first propose an efficient heuristic algorithm, Qcut,
which combines spectral graph partitioning and local search to optimize Q.
Using both synthetic and real networks, we show that Qcut can find higher
modularities and is more scalable than the existing algorithms. Furthermore,
using Qcut as an essential component, we propose a recursive algorithm, HQcut,
to solve the resolution limit problem. We show that HQcut can successfully
detect communities at a much finer scale and with a higher accuracy than the
existing algorithms. Finally, we apply Qcut and HQcut to study a
protein-protein interaction network, and show that the combination of the two
algorithms can reveal interesting biological results that may be otherwise
undetectable.


