On-line Planning and Scheduling: An Application to Controlling Modular
  Printers

  We present a case study of artificial intelligence techniques applied to the
control of production printing equipment. Like many other real-world
applications, this complex domain requires high-speed autonomous
decision-making and robust continual operation. To our knowledge, this work
represents the first successful industrial application of embedded
domain-independent temporal planning. Our system handles execution failures and
multi-objective preferences. At its heart is an on-line algorithm that combines
techniques from state-space planning and partial-order scheduling. We suggest
that this general architecture may prove useful in other applications as more
intelligent systems operate in continual, on-line settings. Our system has been
used to drive several commercial prototypes and has enabled a new product
architecture for our industrial partner. When compared with state-of-the-art
off-line planners, our system is hundreds of times faster and often finds
better plans. Our experience demonstrates that domain-independent AI planning
based on heuristic search can flexibly handle time, resources, replanning, and
multiple objectives in a high-speed practical application without requiring
hand-coded control knowledge.


Best-First Heuristic Search for Multicore Machines

  To harness modern multicore processors, it is imperative to develop parallel
versions of fundamental algorithms. In this paper, we compare different
approaches to parallel best-first search in a shared-memory setting. We present
a new method, PBNF, that uses abstraction to partition the state space and to
detect duplicate states without requiring frequent locking. PBNF allows
speculative expansions when necessary to keep threads busy. We identify and fix
potential livelock conditions in our approach, proving its correctness using
temporal logic. Our approach is general, allowing it to extend easily to
suboptimal and anytime heuristic search. In an empirical comparison on STRIPS
planning, grid pathfinding, and sliding tile puzzle problems using 8-core
machines, we show that A*, weighted A* and Anytime weighted A* implemented
using PBNF yield faster search than improved versions of previous parallel
search proposals.


Value Directed Exploration in Multi-Armed Bandits with Structured Priors

  Multi-armed bandits are a quintessential machine learning problem requiring
the balancing of exploration and exploitation. While there has been progress in
developing algorithms with strong theoretical guarantees, there has been less
focus on practical near-optimal finite-time performance. In this paper, we
propose an algorithm for Bayesian multi-armed bandits that utilizes
value-function-driven online planning techniques. Building on previous work on
UCB and Gittins index, we introduce linearly-separable value functions that
take both the expected return and the benefit of exploration into consideration
to perform n-step lookahead. The algorithm enjoys a sub-linear performance
guarantee and we present simulation results that confirm its strength in
problems with structured priors. The simplicity and generality of our approach
makes it a strong candidate for analyzing more complex multi-armed bandit
problems.


