Vertex representations for twisted affine Lie algebra of type
  A_{2l}^{(2)}

  In this paper, we construct an irreducible vertex module for twisted affine
Lie algebra of type A_{2l}^{(2)}.


Vertex Operator Representations of Type $C_l^{(1)}$ and Product-Sum
  Identities

  The purposes of this work are to construct a class of homogeneous vertex
representations of $C_l^{(1)} \ (l\geq2)$, and to derive a series of
product-sum identities. These identities have fine interpretation in number
theory.


A class of Lie algebras arising from intersection matrices

  In present work, we find a class of Lie algebras, which are defined from the
symmetrizable generalized intersection matrices. However, such algebras are
different from generalized intersection matrix algebras and intersection matrix
algebras. Moreover, such Lie algebras generated by semi-positive definite
matrices can be classified by the modified Dynkin diagrams.


Introduction to co-split Lie algebras

  In this work, we introduce a new concept which is obtained by defining a new
compatibility condition between Lie algebras and Lie coalgebras. With this
terminology, we describe the interrelation between the Killing form and the
adjoint representation in a new perspective.


A Riemann-Hilbert Approach to the Complex Sharma-Tasso-Olver Equation on
  the Half Line

  In this paper, we use the Fokas method to analyze the complex
Sharma-Tasso-Olver(cSTO) equation on the half line. We show that it can be
represented in terms of the solution of a matrix RHP formulated in the plane of
the complex spectral parameter {\lambda}.


The coupled modified nonlinear Schrödinger equations on the
  half-line via the Fokas method

  Coupled modified nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger(CMNLS) equations describe the
pulse propagation in the picosecond or femtosecond regime of the birefringent
optical fibers. In this paper, we use the Fokas method to analyze the
initial-boundary value problem for the CMNLS equations on the half-line. Assume
that the solution u(x,t) and v(x,t) of CMNLS equations are exists, and we show
that it can be expressed in terms of the unique solution of a matrix
Riemann-Hilbert problem formulated in the plane of the complex spectral
parameter {\lambda}.


Quark-antiquark Scattering Phase Shift and Meson Spectral Function in
  Pion Superfluid

  We study the quark-antiquark scattering phase shift and meson spectral
function in the pion superfluid described by the Nambu--Jona-Lasinio model. The
meson mixing in the pion superfluid changes dramatically the full scattering
phase shift and spreads strongly the spectral function of some of the
collective modes.


MIMO UWB Radar System with Compressive Sensing

  A multiple input multiple output ultra-wideband cognitive radar based on
compressive sensing is presented in this letter. For traditional UWB radar,
high sampling rate analog to digital converter at the receiver is required to
meet Shannon theorem, which increases hardware complexity. In order to bypass
the bottleneck of ADC or further increase the radar bandwidth using the latest
wideband ADC, we propose to exploit CS for signal reconstruction at the
receiver of UWB radar for the sparse targets in the surveillance area. Besides,
the function of narrowband interference cancellation is integrated into the
proposed MIMO UWB radar. The field demonstration proves the feasibility and
reliability of the proposed algorithm.


An integrable generalization of the super Kaup-Newell soliton hierarchy
  and its bi-Hamiltonian structure

  An integrable generalization of the super Kaup-Newell(KN) isospectral problem
is introduced and its corresponding generalized super KN soliton hierarchy are
established based on a Lie super-algebra B(0,1) and super-trace identity in
this paper. And the resulting super soliton hierarchy can be put into a super
bi-Hamiltonian form. In addition, a generalized super KN soliton hierarchy with
self-consistent sources is also presented.


Nonlinear integrable couplings of a generalized super
  Ablowitz-Kaup-Newell-Segur hierarchy and its super bi-Hamiltonian structures

  In this paper, a new generalized $5\times5$ matrix spectral problem of
Ablowitz-Kaup-Newell-Segur(AKNS) type associated with the enlarged matrix Lie
super algebra is proposed and its corresponding super soliton hierarchy is
established. The super variational identities is used to furnish
super-Hamiltonian structures for the resulting super soliton hierarchy.


A Riemann-Hilbert Approach to the Kundu-Eckhaus Equation on the
  half-Line

  In this paper, we consider the initial-boundary value problem of the
Kundu-Eckhaus equation on the half-line by using of the Fokas unified transform
method. Assuming that the solution $u(x,t)$ exists, we show that it can be
expressed in terms of the unique solution of a matrix Riemann-Hilbert problem
formulated in the plane of the complex spectral parameter $\lambda$. Moreover,
we also get there exist spectral functions are not independent and they are
satisfying the so-called global relation.


Hölder continuity of the solutions to a class of SPDEs arising from
  multidimensional superprocesses in random environment

  We consider a $d$-dimensional branching particle system in a random
environment. Suppose that the initial measures converge weakly to a measure
with bounded density. Under the Mytnik-Sturm branching mechanism, we prove that
the corresponding empirical measure $X_t^n$ converges weakly in the Skorohod
space $D([0,T];M_F(\mathbb{R}^d))$ and the limit has a density $u_t(x)$, where
$M_F(\mathbb{R}^d)$ is the space of finite measures on $\mathbb{R}^d$. We also
derive a stochastic partial differential equation $u_t(x)$ satisfies. By using
the techniques of Malliavin calculus, we prove that $u_t(x)$ is jointly
H\"{o}lder continuous in time with exponent $\frac{1}{2}-\epsilon$ and in space
with exponent $1-\epsilon$ for any $\epsilon>0$.


The initial-boundary value problems for the coupled derivative nonlinear
  Schrödinger equations on the half-line

  The unified transform method is used to analyze the initial-boundary value
problem for the coupled derivative nonlinear Schr\"odinger(CDNLS) equations on
the half-line. In this paper, we assume that the solution $u(x,t)$ and $v(x,t)$
of CDNLS equations are exists, and we show that it can be expressed in terms of
the unique solution of a matrix Riemann-Hilbert problem formulated in the plane
of the complex spectral parameter $\lambda$.


Magnetisms in $p$-type monolayer gallium chalcogenides (GaSe, GaS)

  Magnetisms in $p$-type monolayer GaX (X=S,Se) is investigated by performing
density-functional calculations. Due to the large density of states near the
valence band edge, these monolayer semiconductors are ferromagnetic within a
small range of hole doping. The intrinsic Ga vacancies can promote local
magnetic moment while Se vacancies cannot. Magnetic coupling between
vacancy-induced local moments is ferromagnetic and surprisingly long-range. The
results indicate that magnetization can be induced by hole doping and can be
tuned by controlled defect generation.


Isogeometric analysis of thin Reissner-Mindlin plates and shells:
  locking phenomena and B-bar method

  We propose a local type of B-bar formulation, addressing locking in
degenerated Reissner-Mindlin plate and shell formulations in the context of
isogeometric analysis. Parasitic strain components are projected onto the
physical space locally, i.e. at the element level, using a least-squares
approach. The formulation allows the flexible utilization of basis functions of
different order as the projection bases. The present formulation is much
cheaper computationally than the classical $\bar{B}$ method. We show the
numerical consistency of the scheme through numerical examples, moreover they
show that the proposed formulation alleviates locking and yields good accuracy
even for slenderness ratios of $1 \times 10^5$, and has the ability to capture
deformations of thin shells using relatively coarse meshes. In addition it can
be opined that the proposed method is less sensitive to locking and mesh
distortion.


Apply Ant Colony Algorithm to Search All Extreme Points of Function

  To find all extreme points of multimodal functions is called extremum
problem, which is a well known difficult issue in optimization fields. Applying
ant colony optimization (ACO) to solve this problem is rarely reported. The
method of applying ACO to solve extremum problem is explored in this paper.
Experiment shows that the solution error of the method presented in this paper
is less than 10^-8. keywords: Extremum Problem; Ant Colony Optimization (ACO)


Extraction of crystal-field parameters for lanthanide ions from
  quantum-chemical calculations

  A simple method for constructing effective Hamiltonians for the 4fN and
4fN-15d energy levels of lanthanide ions in crystals from quantum-chemical
calculations is presented. The method is demonstrated by deriving crystal-field
and spin-orbit parameters for Ce3+ ions doped in LiYF4, Cs2NaYCl6, CaF2, KY3F10
and YAG host crystals from quantum chemical calculations based on the
DV-X{\alpha} method. Good agreement between calculated and fitted values of the
crystal-field parameters is obtained. The method can be used to calculate
parameters even for low-symmetry sites where there are more parameters than
energy levels.


Feynman-Kac formula for fractional heat equation driven by fractional
  white noise

  In this paper we obtain a Feynman-Kac formula for the solution of a
fractional stochastic heat equation driven by fractional noise. One of the main
difficulties is to show the exponential integrability of some singular
nonlinear functionals of symmetric stable L\'evy motion. This difficulty will
be overcome by a technique developed in the framework of large deviation. This
Feynman-Kac formula is applied to obtain the H\"older continuity and moment
formula of the solution.


Three-dimensional Critical Dirac semimetal in KMgBi

  We predicted that AMgBi (A=K,Rb Cs), which have the same lattice structures
as the 111 family of iron-based superconductors (Na/LiFeAs), are
symmetry-protected Dirac semimetals located near the boundary of type-I and
type-II Dirac semimetal phases. Doping Rb or Cs into KMgBi can drive the
transition between the two phases. The materials can also be turned into Weyl
semimetals and topological insulators by explicitly or spontaneously breaking
time-reversal symmetry and C$_4$ lattice symmetry respectively.


Spatial asymptotics for the parabolic Anderson model driven by a
  Gaussian rough noise

  The aim of this paper is to establish the almost sure asymptotic behavior as
the space variable becomes large, for the solution to the one spatial
dimensional stochastic heat equation driven by a Gaussian noise which is white
in time and which has the covariance structure of a fractional Brownian motion
with Hurst parameter greater than 1/4 and less than 1/2 in the space variable.


Stacked Approximated Regression Machine: A Simple Deep Learning Approach

  With the agreement of my coauthors, I Zhangyang Wang would like to withdraw
the manuscript "Stacked Approximated Regression Machine: A Simple Deep Learning
Approach". Some experimental procedures were not included in the manuscript,
which makes a part of important claims not meaningful. In the relevant
research, I was solely responsible for carrying out the experiments; the other
coauthors joined in the discussions leading to the main algorithm.
  Please see the updated text for more details.


Techniques for Interpretable Machine Learning

  Interpretable machine learning tackles the important problem that humans
cannot understand the behaviors of complex machine learning models and how
these models arrive at a particular decision. Although many approaches have
been proposed, a comprehensive understanding of the achievements and challenges
is still lacking. We provide a survey covering existing techniques to increase
the interpretability of machine learning models. We also discuss crucial issues
that the community should consider in future work such as designing
user-friendly explanations and developing comprehensive evaluation metrics to
further push forward the area of interpretable machine learning.


Ghost imaging LiDAR via sparsity constraints using push-broom scanning

  Ghost imaging LiDAR via sparsity constraints using push-broom scanning is
proposed. It can image the stationary target scene continuously along the
scanning direction by taking advantage of the relative movement between the
platform and the target scene. Compared to conventional ghost imaging LiDAR
that requires multiple speckle patterns staring the target, ghost imaging LiDAR
via sparsity constraints using push-broom scanning not only simplifies the
imaging system, but also reduces the sampling number. Numerical simulations and
experiments have demonstrated its efficiency.


Hybrid Crystals of Cuprates and Iron-Based Superconductors

  We propose two possible new compounds, Ba$_2$CuO$_2$Fe$_2$As$_2$ and
K$_2$CuO$_2$Fe$_2$Se$_2$, which hybridize the building blocks of two high
temperature superconductors, cuprates and iron-based superconductors. These
compounds consist of square CuO$_2$ layers and antifluorite-type Fe$_2$X$_2$
(X=As,Se) layers separated by Ba/K. The calculations of binding energies and
phonon spectrums indicate that they are dynamically stable, which ensures that
they may be experimentally synthesized. The Fermi surfaces and electronic
structures of the two compounds inherit the characteristics of both cuprates
and iron-based superconductors. These compounds can be superconductors with
intriguing physical properties to help to determine pairing mechanisms of high
$T_c$ superconductivity.


Temperature dependence of the light yield of the LAB-based and
  mesitylene-based liquid scintillators

  We studied the temperature dependence of the light yield of the linear alkyl
benzene (LAB)-based and mesitylene-based liquid scintillators. The light yield
increases by 23% for both liquid scintillators when the temperature is lowered
from $26\;^{\circ}$C to $-40\;^{\circ }$C, correcting for the temperature
response of the photomultiplier tube. The measurements help to understand the
energy response of the liquid scintillator detectors. Especially, the next
generation reactor neutrino experiments for neutrino mass hierarchy, such as
the Jiangmen Underground Neutrino Observatory (JUNO), require very high energy
resolution. As no apparent degradation on the liquid scintillator transparency
was observed, lowering the operation temperature of the detector to
$\sim4\;^\circ$C will increase the photoelectron yield of the detector by 13%,
combining the light yield increase of the liquid scintillator and the quantum
efficiency increase of the photomultiplier tubes.


Topological phase in non-centrosymmetric material NaSnBi

  We predict that a non-centrosymmetric material NaSnBi locates in a
three-dimensional non-trivial topological phase under ambient pressure based on
first-principle calculations. By deriving the effective model around $\Gamma$
point, we find that the topological phase transition is driven by a Rashba
spin-orbital coupling through an odd number of pairs of band touch because of a
small anisotropic gap caused by quintic dispersion terms. In contrast to
conventional topological insulators, the spin texture of surface Dirac cone is
right-handed and the surface states are strikingly different for different
surface terminations.


Localized Control of Curie Temperature in Perovskite Oxide Film by
  Capping-layer- induced Octahedral Distortion

  With reduced dimensionality, it is often easier to modify the properties of
ultra-thin films than their bulk counterparts. Strain engineering, usually
achieved by choosing appropriate substrates, has been proven effective in
controlling the properties of perovskite oxide films. An emerging alternative
route for developing new multifunctional perovskite is by modification of the
oxygen octahedral structure. Here we report the control of structural oxygen
octahedral rotation in ultra-thin perovskite SrRuO3 films by the deposition of
a SrTiO3 capping layer, which can be lithographically patterned to achieve
local control. Using a scanning Sagnac magnetic microscope, we show increase in
the Curie temperature of SrRuO3 due to the suppression octahedral rotations
revealed by the synchrotron x-ray diffraction. This capping-layer-based
technique may open new possibilities for developing functional oxide materials.


The coupled Fokas-Lenells equations by a Riemann-Hilbert approach

  In this paper, we use the unified transform method to consider the
initial-boundary value problem for the coupled Fokas-Lenells equations on the
half-line, assuming that the solution $\{q(x,t),r(x,t)\}$ of the coupled
Fokas-Lenells equations exists, we show that $\{q_x(x,t),r_x(x,t)\}$ can be
expressed in terms of the unique solution of a matrix Riemann-Hilbert problem
formulated in the plane of the complex spectral parameter $\lambda$. Thus, the
solution $\{q(x,t),r(x,t)\}$ can be obtained by integration with respect to
$x$.


An initial-boundary value problem for the coupled focusing-defocusing
  complex short pulse equation with a $4\times4$ Lax pair

  In this paper we investigate the coupled focusing-defocusing complex short
pulse equation, which describe the propagation of ultra-short optical pulses in
cubic nonlinear media. Through the unified transform method, the
initial-boundary value problem for the coupled focusing-defocusing complex
short pulse equation with $4\times 4$ Lax pair on the half-line are to be
analyzed. Assuming that the solution $\{q_1(x,t),q_2(x,t)\}$ of the coupled
focusing-defocusing complex short pulse equation exists, we show that
$\{q_{1,x}(x,t),q_{2,x}(x,t)\}$ can be expressed in terms of the unique
solution of a $4\times 4$ matrix Riemann-Hilbert problem formulated in the
complex $\lambda$-plane. Thus, the solution $\{q_1(x,t),q_2(x,t)\}$ can be
obtained by integration with respect to $x$. Moreover, we also get that some
spectral functions are not independent and satisfy the so-called global
relation.


Long short-term memory networks in memristor crossbars

  Recent breakthroughs in recurrent deep neural networks with long short-term
memory (LSTM) units has led to major advances in artificial intelligence.
State-of-the-art LSTM models with significantly increased complexity and a
large number of parameters, however, have a bottleneck in computing power
resulting from limited memory capacity and data communication bandwidth. Here
we demonstrate experimentally that LSTM can be implemented with a memristor
crossbar, which has a small circuit footprint to store a large number of
parameters and in-memory computing capability that circumvents the 'von Neumann
bottleneck'. We illustrate the capability of our system by solving real-world
problems in regression and classification, which shows that memristor LSTM is a
promising low-power and low-latency hardware platform for edge inference.


AID++: An Updated Version of AID on Scene Classification

  Aerial image scene classification is a fundamental problem for understanding
high-resolution remote sensing images and has become an active research task in
the field of remote sensing due to its important role in a wide range of
applications. However, the limitations of existing datasets for scene
classification, such as the small scale and low-diversity, severely hamper the
potential usage of the new generation deep convolutional neural networks
(CNNs). Although huge efforts have been made in building large-scale datasets
very recently, e.g., the Aerial Image Dataset (AID) which contains 10,000 image
samples, they are still far from sufficient to fully train a high-capacity deep
CNN model. To this end, we present a larger-scale dataset in this paper, named
as AID++, for aerial scene classification based on the AID dataset. The
proposed AID++ consists of more than 400,000 image samples that are
semi-automatically annotated by using the existing the geographical data. We
evaluate several prevalent CNN models on the proposed dataset, and the results
show that our dataset can be used as a promising benchmark for scene
classification.


Recent advances and opportunities in scene classification of aerial
  images with deep models

  Scene classification is a fundamental task in interpretation of remote
sensing images, and has become an active research topic in remote sensing
community due to its important role in a wide range of applications. Over the
past years, tremendous efforts have been made for developing powerful
approaches for scene classification of remote sensing images, evolving from the
traditional bag-of-visual-words model to the new generation deep convolutional
neural networks (CNNs). The deep CNN based methods have exhibited remarkable
breakthrough on performance, dramatically outperforming previous methods which
strongly rely on hand-crafted features. However, performance with deep CNNs has
gradually plateaued on existing public scene datasets, due to the notable
drawbacks of these datasets, such as the small scale and low-diversity of
training samples. Therefore, to promote the development of new methods and move
the scene classification task a step further, we deeply discuss the existing
problems in scene classification task, and accordingly present three open
directions. We believe these potential directions will be instructive for the
researchers in this field.


Accurate Building Detection in VHR Remote Sensing Images using Geometric
  Saliency

  This paper aims to address the problem of detecting buildings from remote
sensing images with very high resolution (VHR). Inspired by the observation
that buildings are always more distinguishable in geometries than in texture or
spectral, we propose a new geometric building index (GBI) for accurate building
detection, which relies on the geometric saliency of building structures. The
geometric saliency of buildings is derived from a mid-level geometric
representations based on meaningful junctions that can locally describe
anisotropic geometrical structures of images. The resulting GBI is measured by
integrating the derived geometric saliency of buildings. Experiments on three
public datasets demonstrate that the proposed GBI achieves very promising
performance, and meanwhile shows impressive generalization capability.


A Group Variational Transformation Neural Network for Fractional
  Interpolation of Video Coding

  Motion compensation is an important technology in video coding to remove the
temporal redundancy between coded video frames. In motion compensation,
fractional interpolation is used to obtain more reference blocks at sub-pixel
level. Existing video coding standards commonly use fixed interpolation filters
for fractional interpolation, which are not efficient enough to handle diverse
video signals well. In this paper, we design a group variational transformation
convolutional neural network (GVTCNN) to improve the fractional interpolation
performance of the luma component in motion compensation. GVTCNN infers samples
at different sub-pixel positions from the input integer-position sample. It
first extracts a shared feature map from the integer-position sample to infer
various sub-pixel position samples. Then a group variational transformation
technique is used to transform a group of copied shared feature maps to samples
at different sub-pixel positions. Experimental results have identified the
interpolation efficiency of our GVTCNN. Compared with the interpolation method
of High Efficiency Video Coding, our method achieves 1.9% bit saving on average
and up to 5.6% bit saving under low-delay P configuration.


Unconventional Flatband Line States in Photonic Lieb Lattices

  Flatband systems typically host "compact localized states"(CLS) due to
destructive interference and macroscopic degeneracy of Bloch wave functions
associated with a dispersionless energy band. Using a photonic Lieb
lattice(LL), we show that conventional localized flatband states are inherently
incomplete, with the missing modes manifested as extended line states which
form non-contractible loops winding around the entire lattice. Experimentally,
we develop a continuous-wave laser writing technique to establish a
finite-sized photonic LL with specially-tailored boundaries, thereby directly
observe the unusually extended flatband line states.Such unconventional line
states cannot be expressed as a linear combination of the previously observed
CLS but rather arise from the nontrivial real-space topology.The robustness of
the line states to imperfect excitation conditions is discussed, and their
potential applications are illustrated.


AID: A Benchmark Dataset for Performance Evaluation of Aerial Scene
  Classification

  Aerial scene classification, which aims to automatically label an aerial
image with a specific semantic category, is a fundamental problem for
understanding high-resolution remote sensing imagery. In recent years, it has
become an active task in remote sensing area and numerous algorithms have been
proposed for this task, including many machine learning and data-driven
approaches. However, the existing datasets for aerial scene classification like
UC-Merced dataset and WHU-RS19 are with relatively small sizes, and the results
on them are already saturated. This largely limits the development of scene
classification algorithms. This paper describes the Aerial Image Dataset (AID):
a large-scale dataset for aerial scene classification. The goal of AID is to
advance the state-of-the-arts in scene classification of remote sensing images.
For creating AID, we collect and annotate more than ten thousands aerial scene
images. In addition, a comprehensive review of the existing aerial scene
classification techniques as well as recent widely-used deep learning methods
is given. Finally, we provide a performance analysis of typical aerial scene
classification and deep learning approaches on AID, which can be served as the
baseline results on this benchmark.


Pristine graphene as a catalyst in reactions with organics containing
  C=O bonds

  Pristine graphene is thought lack of catalytic activity up to date, although
using graphene-plus-heteroatom materials as catalysts has become a subject of
intensive research because it can be metal saving, eco-friendly and ultimately
sustainable. Here we report observations of catalytic reactions of
high-quality, clean, pristine graphene when immersed into organics containing
C=O bonds, like acetone, acetic acid and acetaldehyde. The C=O bonds were found
to break and form polymers including polyethers. The reaction rate is highly
temperature dependent. The reaction products mainly physically adsorb on
graphene and do not cause increase of defect density in graphene, hence
graphene retains its intrinsic properties. This new catalysis shall not only
find practical importance but also deepen our understanding on the role of
graphene in all graphene based catalysis.


Exact and Consistent Interpretation for Piecewise Linear Neural
  Networks: A Closed Form Solution

  Strong intelligent machines powered by deep neural networks are increasingly
deployed as black boxes to make decisions in risk-sensitive domains, such as
finance and medical. To reduce potential risk and build trust with users, it is
critical to interpret how such machines make their decisions. Existing works
interpret a pre-trained neural network by analyzing hidden neurons, mimicking
pre-trained models or approximating local predictions. However, these methods
do not provide a guarantee on the exactness and consistency of their
interpretation. In this paper, we propose an elegant closed form solution named
$OpenBox$ to compute exact and consistent interpretations for the family of
Piecewise Linear Neural Networks (PLNN). The major idea is to first transform a
PLNN into a mathematically equivalent set of linear classifiers, then interpret
each linear classifier by the features that dominate its prediction. We further
apply $OpenBox$ to demonstrate the effectiveness of non-negative and sparse
constraints on improving the interpretability of PLNNs. The extensive
experiments on both synthetic and real world data sets clearly demonstrate the
exactness and consistency of our interpretation.


Type-II Dirac photons at the metasurfaces

  Topological characteristics of energy bands, such as Dirac/Weyl nodes, have
attracted substantial interest in condensed matter systems as well as in
classical wave systems. Among these energy bands, the type-II Dirac point is a
nodal degeneracy with tilted conical dispersion, leading to a peculiar crossing
dispersion in the constant energy plane. Such nodal points have recently been
found in electronic materials. The analogous topological feature in photonic
systems remains a theoretical curiosity, with experimental realization expected
to be challenging. Here, we experimentally realize the type-II Dirac point
using a planar metasurface architecture, where the band degeneracy point is
protected by the underlying mirror symmetry of the metasurface. Gapless edge
modes are found and measured at the boundary between the different domains of
the symmetry-broken metasurface. Our work shows that metasurfaces are simple
and practical platforms for realizing electromagnetic type-II Dirac points, and
their planar structure is a distinct advantage that facilitates applications in
two-dimensional topological photonics.


Large Band Gap Quantum Anomalous Hall Phase in Hexagonal Organometallic
  Frameworks

  The nontrivial band gap plays a critical role in quantum anomalous Hall (QAH)
insulators. In this work, we propose that the intrinsic QAH phase with sizable
band gaps up to 367 meV is achieved in two-dimensional hexagonal organometallic
frameworks (HOMFs). Based on first-principles calculations and effective model
analysis, we uncover that these large band gaps in transition metal based HOMFs
are opened by strong spin-orbital coupling of the localized 4d or 5d electrons.
Importantly, we reveal that Coulomb correlations can further significantly
enhance the nontrivial band gaps. In addition, we suggest a possible avenue to
grow these organometallic QAH insulators on a semiconducting SiC(111)
substrate, and the topological features are perfectly preserved due to the van
der Waals interaction. Our work shows that the correlation remarkably enhances
the nontrivial band gaps, providing exotic candidates to realize the QAH states
at high temperatures.


Topological Vortex Phase Transitions in Iron-Based Superconductors

  We study topological vortex phases in iron-based superconductors. Besides the
previously known vortex end Majorana zero modes (MZMs) phase stemming from the
existence of a three dimensional (3D) strong topological insulator state, we
show that there is another topologically nontrivial phase as iron-based
superconductors can be doped superconducting 3D weak topological insulators
(WTIs). The vortex bound states in a superconducting 3D WTI exhibit two
different types of quantum states, a robust nodal superconducting phase with
pairs of bulk MZMs and a full-gap topologically nontrivial superconducting
phase which has single vortex end MZM in a certain range of doping level.
Moreover, we predict and summarize various topological phases in iron-based
superconductors, and find that carrier doping and interlayer coupling can drive
systems to have phase transitions between these different topological phases.


Palladium Diselenide Long-Wavelength Infrared Photodetector with High
  Sensitivity and Stability

  A long-wavelength infrared (IR) photodetector based on two-dimensional
materials working at room temperature would have wide applications in many
aspects in remote sensing, thermal imaging, biomedical optics, and medical
imaging. However, sub-bandgap light detection in graphene and black phosphorus
has been a long-standing scientific challenge because of low photoresponsivity,
instability in the air and highdark current. In this study, we report a highly
sensitive, air-stable and operable long-wavelength infrared photodetector at
room temperature based on PdSe2 phototransistors and its heterostructure. A
high photoresponsivity of ~42.1 AW-1 (at 10.6 {\mu}m) was demonstrated, which
is an order of magnitude higher than the current record of platinum diselenide.
Moreover, the dark current and noise power density were suppressed effectively
by fabricating a van der Waals heterostructure. This work fundamentally
contributes to establishing long-wavelength infrared detection by PdSe2 at the
forefront of long-IR two-dimensional-materials-based photonics.


Harmonic mean curvature flow and geometric inequalities

  In this article, we will use the harmonic mean curvature flow to prove a new
class of Alexandrov-Fenchel type inequalities for strictly convex hypersurfaces
in hyperbolic space in terms of total curvature, which is the integral of
Gaussian curvature on the hypersurface. We will also use the harmonic mean
curvature flow to prove a new class of geometric inequalities for
horospherically convex hypersurfaces in hyperbolic space. Using these new
Alexandrov-Fenchel type inequalities and the inverse mean curvature flow, we
obtain an Alexandrov-Fenchel inequality for strictly convex hypersurfaces in
hyperbolic space, which was previously proved for horospherically convex
hypersurfaces by Wang and Xia [44]. Finally, we use the mean curvature flow to
prove a new Heintze-Karcher type inequality for hypersurfaces with positive
Ricci curvature in hyperbolic space.


A quantum algorithm for evolving open quantum dynamics on quantum
  computing devices

  Designing quantum algorithms for simulating quantum systems has seen enormous
progress in the recent years, yet relatively few studies have been done to
develop quantum algorithms for non-unitary open quantum dynamics despite its
importance in modeling the inevitable system-environment interaction found in
most realistic physical models. In this work we propose a general quantum
algorithm to evolve an arbitrary non-unitary dynamics on quantum computing
devices. The initial state in the form of a density matrix can be converted
into a state vector and the Kraus operators governing the time evolution can be
converted into unitary matrices with minimal dilation guaranteed by the
Sz.-Nagy theorem. The initial state vector can then be evolved by unitary
quantum gates. We then extract important physical information carried by the
evolved density matrix without using quantum tomography. We demonstrate the
application of our quantum algorithm to an amplitude damping quantum channel
using the IBM Qiskit quantum simulator and the IBM Q 5 Tenerife quantum device.
The proposed algorithm does not require particular models of dynamics or
decomposition of the quantum channel, and thus can be easily generalized to
other open quantum dynamical models.


Tests of Cold Atom Clock in Orbit

  Since the atomic clock was invented, its performance has been improved for
one digit every decade until 90s of last century when the traditional atomic
clock almost reached its limit. With laser cooled atoms, the performance can be
further improved, and nowadays the cold atom based clocks are widely used as
primary frequency standards. Such a kind of cold atom clocks has great
applications in space. This paper presents the design and tests of a cold atom
clock (CAC) operating in space. In microgravity, the atoms are cooled, trapped,
launched and finally detected after being interrogated by microwave field with
Ramsey method. The results of laser cooling of atoms in microgravity in orbit
are presented and compared with that on ground for the first time. That the
full width at half maximum (FWHM) of obtained central Ramsey fringes varies
linearly with launching velocity of cold atoms shows the effects of
microgravity. With appropriate parameters, a closed-loop locking of the CAC is
realized in orbit and the estimated short term frequency stability of
$3.0\times 10 ^{-13}/\sqrt{\tau }$ has been reached.


Dense v.s. Sparse: A Comparative Study of Sampling Analysis in Scene
  Classification of High-Resolution Remote Sensing Imagery

  Scene classification is a key problem in the interpretation of
high-resolution remote sensing imagery. Many state-of-the-art methods, e.g.
bag-of-visual-words model and its variants, the topic models as well as deep
learning-based approaches, share similar procedures: patch sampling, feature
description/learning and classification. Patch sampling is the first and a key
procedure which has a great influence on the results. In the literature, many
different sampling strategies have been used, {e.g. dense sampling, random
sampling, keypoint-based sampling and saliency-based sampling, etc. However, it
is still not clear which sampling strategy is suitable for the scene
classification of high-resolution remote sensing images. In this paper, we
comparatively study the effects of different sampling strategies under the
scenario of scene classification of high-resolution remote sensing images. We
divide the existing sampling methods into two types: dense sampling and sparse
sampling, the later of which includes random sampling, keypoint-based sampling
and various saliency-based sampling proposed recently. In order to compare
their performances, we rely on a standard bag-of-visual-words model to
construct our testing scheme, owing to their simplicity, robustness and
efficiency. The experimental results on two commonly used datasets show that
dense sampling has the best performance among all the strategies but with high
spatial and computational complexity, random sampling gives better or
comparable results than other sparse sampling methods, like the sophisticated
multi-scale key-point operators and the saliency-based methods which are
intensively studied and commonly used recently.


Apply Local Clustering Method to Improve the Running Speed of Ant Colony
  Optimization

  Ant Colony Optimization (ACO) has time complexity O(t*m*N*N), and its typical
application is to solve Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP), where t, m, and N
denotes the iteration number, number of ants, number of cities respectively.
Cutting down running time is one of study focuses, and one way is to decrease
parameter t and N, especially N. For this focus, the following method is
presented in this paper. Firstly, design a novel clustering algorithm named
Special Local Clustering algorithm (SLC), then apply it to classify all cities
into compact classes, where compact class is the class that all cities in this
class cluster tightly in a small region. Secondly, let ACO act on every class
to get a local TSP route. Thirdly, all local TSP routes are jointed to form
solution. Fourthly, the inaccuracy of solution caused by clustering is
eliminated. Simulation shows that the presented method improves the running
speed of ACO by 200 factors at least. And this high speed is benefit from two
factors. One is that class has small size and parameter N is cut down. The
route length at every iteration step is convergent when ACO acts on compact
class. The other factor is that, using the convergence of route length as
termination criterion of ACO and parameter t is cut down.


Collaborative Filtering with Topic and Social Latent Factors
  Incorporating Implicit Feedback

  Recommender systems (RSs) provide an effective way of alleviating the
information overload problem by selecting personalized items for different
users. Latent factors based collaborative filtering (CF) has become the popular
approaches for RSs due to its accuracy and scalability. Recently, online social
networks and user-generated content provide diverse sources for recommendation
beyond ratings. Although {\em social matrix factorization} (Social MF) and {\em
topic matrix factorization} (Topic MF) successfully exploit social relations
and item reviews, respectively, both of them ignore some useful information. In
this paper, we investigate the effective data fusion by combining the
aforementioned approaches. First, we propose a novel model {\em \mbox{MR3}} to
jointly model three sources of information (i.e., ratings, item reviews, and
social relations) effectively for rating prediction by aligning the latent
factors and hidden topics. Second, we incorporate the implicit feedback from
ratings into the proposed model to enhance its capability and to demonstrate
its flexibility. We achieve more accurate rating prediction on real-life
datasets over various state-of-the-art methods. Furthermore, we measure the
contribution from each of the three data sources and the impact of implicit
feedback from ratings, followed by the sensitivity analysis of hyperparameters.
Empirical studies demonstrate the effectiveness and efficacy of our proposed
model and its extension.


First principles modeling of tunnel magnetoresistance of Fe/MgO/Fe
  trilayers

  By carrying out density functional theory analysis within the Keldysh
non-equilibrium Green's functional formalism, we have calculated the nonlinear
and non-equilibrium quantum transport properties of Fe/MgO/Fe trilayer
structures as a function of external bias voltage. For well relaxed atomic
structures of the trilayer, the equilibrium tunnel magnetoresistance ratio
(TMR) is found to be very large and also fairly stable against small variations
in the atomic structure. As a function of external bias voltage, the TMR
reduces monotonically to zero with a voltage scale of about 1V, in agreement
with experimental observations. We present understanding of the nonequilibrium
transport properties by investigating microscopic details of the scattering
states and the Bloch bands of the Fe leads.


Persistent spin currents in electron systems with spin-orbit interaction

  We investigate the persistent spin currents in one- and two-dimensional
electron systems with spin-orbit interaction in thermodynamics equilibrium at
absolute zero temperature. The persistent spin current is the intrinsic one
which is connected with the Berry phases in the configuration spaces of an
electron system and winding numbers in the field configurations of electrons.
When the topological space of the configuration of a system has the nontrivial
first homotopy groups, the persistent spin currents in the system could be
nonzero and not easily destroyed by impurity scattering in ballistic limit. The
non-vanishing background spin currents in infinite two-dimensional electron
system found by Rashba could be realized by the transport persistent spin
currents in a finite torus electron system with spin-orbit interaction. In this
sense, we meet the challenge proposed by Rashba.


