Joint measurements and Svetlichny's inequality

  We prove that the Svetlichny's inequality can be derived from the existence
of joint measurements and the principle of no-signaling. Then we show that, on
the basis of quantum measurement assumption, it would imply the breach of
causality if the magnitude of violation of Svetlichny's inequality exceeds
quantum bound.


Multi-Estimator Full Left Ventricle Quantification through Ensemble
  Learning

  Cardiovascular disease accounts for 1 in every 4 deaths in United States.
Accurate estimation of structural and functional cardiac parameters is crucial
for both diagnosis and disease management. In this work, we develop an ensemble
learning framework for more accurate and robust left ventricle (LV)
quantification. The framework combines two 1st-level modules: direct estimation
module and a segmentation module. The direct estimation module utilizes
Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to achieve end-to-end quantification. The
CNN is trained by taking 2D cardiac images as input and cardiac parameters as
output. The segmentation module utilizes a U-Net architecture for obtaining
pixel-wise prediction of the epicardium and endocardium of LV from the
background. The binary U-Net output is then analyzed by a separate CNN for
estimating the cardiac parameters. We then employ linear regression between the
1st-level predictor and ground truth to learn a 2nd-level predictor that
ensembles the results from 1st-level modules for the final estimation.
Preliminary results by testing the proposed framework on the LVQuan18 dataset
show superior performance of the ensemble learning model over the two base
modules.


Entanglement Entropy in an Antiferromagnetic Heisenberg Spin Chain with
  Boundary Impurities

  The effects of boundary impurities on the entanglement entropy in an
antiferromagnetic Heisenberg opened spin-$1/2$ chain are investigated. The
method of density-matrix renormalization-group is used to obtain the bipartite
entanglement. The entropy increases when the length of the subsystem increases.
It will approach to a constant when system length is very large. With the same
impurity interaction, qutrit impurities of spin-$1$ can increase the
entanglement entropy.


Linearized Alternating Direction Method with Adaptive Penalty and Warm
  Starts for Fast Solving Transform Invariant Low-Rank Textures

  Transform Invariant Low-rank Textures (TILT) is a novel and powerful tool
that can effectively rectify a rich class of low-rank textures in 3D scenes
from 2D images despite significant deformation and corruption. The existing
algorithm for solving TILT is based on the alternating direction method (ADM).
It suffers from high computational cost and is not theoretically guaranteed to
converge to a correct solution. In this paper, we propose a novel algorithm to
speed up solving TILT, with guaranteed convergence. Our method is based on the
recently proposed linearized alternating direction method with adaptive penalty
(LADMAP). To further reduce computation, warm starts are also introduced to
initialize the variables better and cut the cost on singular value
decomposition. Extensive experimental results on both synthetic and real data
demonstrate that this new algorithm works much more efficiently and robustly
than the existing algorithm. It could be at least five times faster than the
previous method.


Comparative Document Analysis for Large Text Corpora

  This paper presents a novel research problem on joint discovery of
commonalities and differences between two individual documents (or document
sets), called Comparative Document Analysis (CDA). Given any pair of documents
from a document collection, CDA aims to automatically identify sets of quality
phrases to summarize the commonalities of both documents and highlight the
distinctions of each with respect to the other informatively and concisely. Our
solution uses a general graph-based framework to derive novel measures on
phrase semantic commonality and pairwise distinction}, and guides the selection
of sets of phrases by solving two joint optimization problems. We develop an
iterative algorithm to integrate the maximization of phrase commonality or
distinction measure with the learning of phrase-document semantic relevance in
a mutually enhancing way. Experiments on text corpora from two different
domains---scientific publications and news---demonstrate the effectiveness and
robustness of the proposed method on comparing individual documents. Our case
study on comparing news articles published at different dates shows the power
of the proposed method on comparing document sets.


Recurrent Event Network for Reasoning over Temporal Knowledge Graphs

  Recently, there has been a surge of interest in learning representation of
graph-structured data that are dynamically evolving. However, current dynamic
graph learning methods lack a principled way in modeling temporal,
multi-relational, and concurrent interactions between nodes---a limitation that
is especially problematic for the task of temporal knowledge graph reasoning,
where the goal is to predict unseen entity relationships (i.e., events) over
time. Here we present Recurrent Event Network (\method)---an architecture for
modeling complex event sequences---which consists of a recurrent event encoder
and a neighborhood aggregator. The event encoder employs a RNN to capture
(subject, relation)-specific patterns from historical entity interactions;
while the neighborhood aggregator summarizes concurrent interactions within
each time stamp. An output layer is designed for predicting forthcoming,
multi-relational events. Experiments on temporal link prediction over two
knowledge graph datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our method,
especially on multi-step inference over time.


The coordinate transformation and the exact solutions of the
  Schrödinger equation with position-dependent effective mass

  Using the coordinate transformation method, we solve the one-dimensional
Schr\"{o}dinger equation with position-dependent mass(PDM). The explicit
expressions for the potentials, energy eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the
systems are given. The eigenfunctions can be expressed in terms of the Jacobi,
Hemite and generalized Laguerre polynomials. All potentials for these solvable
systems have an extra term $V_m$ which produced from the dependence of mass on
the coordinate, compared with that for the systems of constant mass. The
properties of $V_m$ for several mass functions are discussed.


Label Noise Reduction in Entity Typing by Heterogeneous Partial-Label
  Embedding

  Current systems of fine-grained entity typing use distant supervision in
conjunction with existing knowledge bases to assign categories (type labels) to
entity mentions. However, the type labels so obtained from knowledge bases are
often noisy (i.e., incorrect for the entity mention's local context). We define
a new task, Label Noise Reduction in Entity Typing (LNR), to be the automatic
identification of correct type labels (type-paths) for training examples, given
the set of candidate type labels obtained by distant supervision with a given
type hierarchy. The unknown type labels for individual entity mentions and the
semantic similarity between entity types pose unique challenges for solving the
LNR task. We propose a general framework, called PLE, to jointly embed entity
mentions, text features and entity types into the same low-dimensional space
where, in that space, objects whose types are semantically close have similar
representations. Then we estimate the type-path for each training example in a
top-down manner using the learned embeddings. We formulate a global objective
for learning the embeddings from text corpora and knowledge bases, which adopts
a novel margin-based loss that is robust to noisy labels and faithfully models
type correlation derived from knowledge bases. Our experiments on three public
typing datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of PLE, with an
average of 25% improvement in accuracy compared to next best method.


CoType: Joint Extraction of Typed Entities and Relations with Knowledge
  Bases

  Extracting entities and relations for types of interest from text is
important for understanding massive text corpora. Traditionally, systems of
entity relation extraction have relied on human-annotated corpora for training
and adopted an incremental pipeline. Such systems require additional human
expertise to be ported to a new domain, and are vulnerable to errors cascading
down the pipeline. In this paper, we investigate joint extraction of typed
entities and relations with labeled data heuristically obtained from knowledge
bases (i.e., distant supervision). As our algorithm for type labeling via
distant supervision is context-agnostic, noisy training data poses unique
challenges for the task. We propose a novel domain-independent framework,
called CoType, that runs a data-driven text segmentation algorithm to extract
entity mentions, and jointly embeds entity mentions, relation mentions, text
features and type labels into two low-dimensional spaces (for entity and
relation mentions respectively), where, in each space, objects whose types are
close will also have similar representations. CoType, then using these learned
embeddings, estimates the types of test (unlinkable) mentions. We formulate a
joint optimization problem to learn embeddings from text corpora and knowledge
bases, adopting a novel partial-label loss function for noisy labeled data and
introducing an object "translation" function to capture the cross-constraints
of entities and relations on each other. Experiments on three public datasets
demonstrate the effectiveness of CoType across different domains (e.g., news,
biomedical), with an average of 25% improvement in F1 score compared to the
next best method.


Learning Dual Retrieval Module for Semi-supervised Relation Extraction

  Relation extraction is an important task in structuring content of text data,
and becomes especially challenging when learning with weak supervision---where
only a limited number of labeled sentences are given and a large number of
unlabeled sentences are available. Most existing work exploits unlabeled data
based on the ideas of self-training (i.e., bootstrapping a model) and
multi-view learning (e.g., ensembling multiple model variants). However, these
methods either suffer from the issue of semantic drift, or do not fully capture
the problem characteristics of relation extraction. In this paper, we leverage
a key insight that retrieving sentences expressing a relation is a dual task of
predicting relation label for a given sentence---two tasks are complementary to
each other and can be optimized jointly for mutual enhancement. To model this
intuition, we propose DualRE, a principled framework that introduces a
retrieval module which is jointly trained with the original relation prediction
module. In this way, high-quality samples selected by retrieval module from
unlabeled data can be used to improve prediction module, and vice versa.
Experimental results\footnote{\small Code and data can be found at
\url{https://github.com/INK-USC/DualRE}.} on two public datasets as well as
case studies demonstrate the effectiveness of the DualRE approach.


Jointly Learning Explainable Rules for Recommendation with Knowledge
  Graph

  Explainability and effectiveness are two key aspects for building recommender
systems. Prior efforts mostly focus on incorporating side information to
achieve better recommendation performance. However, these methods have some
weaknesses: (1) prediction of neural network-based embedding methods are hard
to explain and debug; (2) symbolic, graph-based approaches (e.g., meta
path-based models) require manual efforts and domain knowledge to define
patterns and rules, and ignore the item association types (e.g. substitutable
and complementary). In this paper, we propose a novel joint learning framework
to integrate \textit{induction of explainable rules from knowledge graph} with
\textit{construction of a rule-guided neural recommendation model}. The
framework encourages two modules to complement each other in generating
effective and explainable recommendation: 1) inductive rules, mined from
item-centric knowledge graphs, summarize common multi-hop relational patterns
for inferring different item associations and provide human-readable
explanation for model prediction; 2) recommendation module can be augmented by
induced rules and thus have better generalization ability dealing with the
cold-start issue. Extensive experiments\footnote{Code and data can be found at:
\url{https://github.com/THUIR/RuleRec}} show that our proposed method has
achieved significant improvements in item recommendation over baselines on
real-world datasets. Our model demonstrates robust performance over "noisy"
item knowledge graphs, generated by linking item names to related entities.


Superconducting properties and c-axis superstructure of Mg1-xAlxB2

  The superconducting and structural properties of a series of Mg1-xAlxB2
samples have been investigated. X-ray diffraction results confirmed the
existence of a structural transition associated with the significant change in
inter-boron layer distance as reported previously by Slusky et al.
Moreover,transmission-electron-microscopy observations revealed the existence
of a superstructure with doubled lattice constant along the c-axis direction.
We propose that this superstructure is essentially related to the structural
transition. The modifications of superconducting transition temperature Tc, the
normal state resistivity, and the upper critical field Bc2 by Al doping are
discussed in terms of Al-substitution induced changes in the electronic
structure at the Fermi energy.


Bound on genuine multipartite correlations from the principle of
  information causality

  Quantum mechanics is not the unique no-signaling theory which is endowed with
stronger-than-classical correlations, and there exists a broad class of
no-signaling theories allowing even stronger-than-quantum correlations. The
principle of information causality has been suggested to distinguish quantum
theory from these nonphysical theories, together with an elegant
information-theoretic proof of the quantum bound of two-particle correlations.
In this work, we extend this to genuine $N$-particle correlations that cannot
be reduced to mixtures of states in which a smaller number of particles are
entangled. We first express Svetlichny's inequality in terms of multipartite
no-signaling boxes, then prove that the strongest genuine multipartite
correlations lead to the maximal violation of information causality. The
maximal genuine multipartite correlations under the constraint of information
causality is found to be equal to the quantum mechanical bound. This result
consolidates information causality as a physical principle defining the
possible correlations allowed by nature, and provides intriguing insights into
the limits of genuine multipartite correlations in quantum theory.


Predicting a Ferrimagnetic Phase of Zn2FeOsO6 with Strong
  Magnetoelectric Coupling

  Multiferroic materials, in which ferroelectric and magnetic ordering coexist,
are of fundamental interest for the development of novel memory devices that
allow for electrical writing and non-destructive magnetic readout operation.
The great challenge is to create room temperature multiferroic materials with
strongly coupled ferroelectric and ferromagnetic (or ferrimagnetic) orderings.
BiFeO3 has been the most heavily investigated single-phase multiferroic to date
due to the coexistence of its magnetic order and ferroelectric order at room
temperature. However, there is no net magnetic moment in the cycloidal
(antiferromagnetic-like) magnetic state of bulk BiFeO3, which severely limits
its realistic applications in electric field controlled spintronic devices.
Here, we predict that double perovskite Zn2FeOsO6 is a new multiferroic with
properties superior to BiFeO3. First, there are strong ferroelectricity and
strong ferrimagnetism at room temperature in Zn2FeOsO6. Second, the easy-plane
of the spontaneous magnetization can be switched by an external electric field,
evidencing the strong magnetoelectric coupling existing in this system. Our
results suggest that ferrimagnetic 3d-5d double perovskite may therefore be
used to achieve voltage control of magnetism in future spintronic devices.


Observation of acoustic spin

  Unlike optical waves, acoustic waves in fluids are described by scalar
pressure fields, and therefore are considered spinless. Here, we demonstrate
experimentally the existence of spin in acoustics. In the interference of two
acoustic waves propagating perpendicularly to each other, we observed the spin
angular momentum in free space as a result of the rotation of local particle
velocity. We successfully measured the acoustic spin, and spin induced torque
acting on a lossy acoustic meta-atom that results from absorption of the spin
angular momentum. The acoustic spin is also observed in the evanescent field of
a guided mode traveling along a metamaterial waveguide. We found spin-momentum
locking in acoustic waves whose propagation direction is determined by the sign
of spin. The observed acoustic spin could open a new door in acoustics and
their applications for the control of wave propagation and particle rotation.


Interplay between evolutionary game and network structure: the
  coevolution of social net, cooperation and wealth

  We study the interplay between evolutionary game and network structure and
show how the dynamics of the game affect the growth pattern of the network and
how the evolution of the network influence the cooperative behavior in the
game. Simulation results show that the payoff-based preferential attachment
mechanism leads to the emergence of a scale-free structural property, $P(k)\sim
k^{-\gamma}$. Moreover, we investigate the average path length and the
assortative mixing features. The obtained results indicate that the network has
small-world and positive assortative behaviors, which are consistent with the
observations of some real social networks. In parallel, we found that the
evolution of the underlying network structure effectively promotes the
cooperation level of the game. We also investigate the wealth distribution
obtained by our model, which is consistent with the Pareto law in the real
observation. In addition, the analysis of the generated scale-free network
structure is provided for better understanding the evolutionary dynamics of our
model.


Molecular Dynamics Simulation of Macromolecules Using Graphics
  Processing Unit

  Molecular dynamics (MD) simulation is a powerful computational tool to study
the behavior of macromolecular systems. But many simulations of this field are
limited in spatial or temporal scale by the available computational resource.
In recent years, graphics processing unit (GPU) provides unprecedented
computational power for scientific applications. Many MD algorithms suit with
the multithread nature of GPU. In this paper, MD algorithms for macromolecular
systems that run entirely on GPU are presented. Compared to the MD simulation
with free software GROMACS on a single CPU core, our codes achieve about 10
times speed-up on a single GPU. For validation, we have performed MD
simulations of polymer crystallization on GPU, and the results observed
perfectly agree with computations on CPU. Therefore, our single GPU codes have
already provided an inexpensive alternative for macromolecular simulations on
traditional CPU clusters and they can also be used as a basis to develop
parallel GPU programs to further speedup the computations.


Electromagnetic, stress and thermal analysis of the Superconducting
  Magnet

  Within the framework of the National Special Project for Magnetic Confined
Nuclear Fusion Energy of China, the design of a superconducting magnet project
as a test facility of the Nb3Sn coil or NbTi coil for the Chinese Fusion
Engineering Test Reactor (CFETR) has been carried out not only to estimate the
relevant conductor performance but also to implement a background magnetic
field for CFETR CS insert and toroidal field (TF) insert coils. The
superconducting magnet is composed of two parts: the inner part with Nb3Sn
cable-in-conduit conductor (CICC) and the outer part with NbTi CICC. Both parts
are connected in series and powered by a single DC power supply. The
superconducting magnet can be cooled with supercritical helium at inlet
temperature of 4.5 K. The total inductance and stored energy of the
superconducting magnet are about 0.278 H and 436.6 MJ at an operating current
of 56 kA respectively. An active quench protection circuit was adopted to
transfer the stored magnetic energy of the superconducting magnet during a dump
operation. In this paper, the design of the superconducting magnet and the main
analysis results of the electromagnetic, structural and thermal-hydraulic
performance are described.


Broadband frequency conversion via adiabatically tapered $χ^{(2)}$
  waveguide in photonic integrated circuits

  We propose to use the integrated aluminum nitride waveguide with engineered
width variation to achieve optical frequency conversion based on $\chi^{(2)}$
nonlinear effect on a photonic chip. We show that in an adiabatically tapered
waveguide, the frequency conversion has a much broader bandwidth and the
efficiency within the bandwidth is almost constant, which is favorable for
short pulses. We demonstrate both analytically and numerically an "area law"
for the frequency conversion, i.e. the product of bandwidth and efficiency is
conserved as long as peak conversion efficiency does not saturate. The
adiabatic structure shows higher saturation thresholds in pump power or
interaction length, outperforming the conventional uniform waveguide design.
With our approach, high-efficiency and wavefront-keeping conversion for short
pulses is possible on a photonic chip, which will surely find applications for
scalable on-chip information processing.


Learning Named Entity Tagger using Domain-Specific Dictionary

  Recent advances in deep neural models allow us to build reliable named entity
recognition (NER) systems without handcrafting features. However, such methods
require large amounts of manually-labeled training data. There have been
efforts on replacing human annotations with distant supervision (in conjunction
with external dictionaries), but the generated noisy labels pose significant
challenges on learning effective neural models. Here we propose two neural
models to suit noisy distant supervision from the dictionary. First, under the
traditional sequence labeling framework, we propose a revised fuzzy CRF layer
to handle tokens with multiple possible labels. After identifying the nature of
noisy labels in distant supervision, we go beyond the traditional framework and
propose a novel, more effective neural model AutoNER with a new Tie or Break
scheme. In addition, we discuss how to refine distant supervision for better
NER performance. Extensive experiments on three benchmark datasets demonstrate
that AutoNER achieves the best performance when only using dictionaries with no
additional human effort, and delivers competitive results with state-of-the-art
supervised benchmarks.


Heter-Sim: Heterogeneous multi-agent systems simulation by interactive
  data-driven optimization

  Interactive multi-agent simulation algorithms are used to compute the
trajectories and behaviors of different entities in virtual reality scenarios.
However, current methods involve considerable parameter tweaking to generate
plausible behaviors. We introduce a novel approach (Heter-Sim) that combines
physics-based simulation methods with data-driven techniques using an
optimization-based formulation. Our approach is general and can simulate
heterogeneous agents corresponding to human crowds, traffic, vehicles, or
combinations of different agents with varying dynamics. We estimate motion
states from real-world datasets that include information about position,
velocity, and control direction. Our optimization algorithm considers several
constraints, including velocity continuity, collision avoidance, attraction,
and direction control. To accelerate the computations, we reduce the search
space for both collision avoidance and optimal solution computation. Heter-Sim
can simulate tens or hundreds of agents at interactive rates and we compare its
accuracy with real-world datasets and prior algorithms. We also perform user
studies that evaluate the plausible behaviors generated by our algorithm and a
user study that evaluates the plausibility of our algorithm via VR.


Phase diagram of the spin-1/2 Heisenberg alternating chain in a magnetic
  field

  By using the infinite time-evolving block decimation, we study quantum
fidelity and entanglement entropy in the spin-1/2 Heisenberg alternating chain
under an external magnetic field. The effects of the magnetic field on the
fidelity are investigated, and its relation with the quantum phase transition
(QPT) is analyzed. The phase diagram of the model is given accordingly, which
supports the Haldane phase, the singlet-dimer phase, the Luttinger liquid phase
and the paramagnetic phase. The scaling of entanglement entropy in the gapless
Luttinger liquid phase is studied, and the central charge c = 1 is obtained. We
also study the relationship between the quantum coherence, string order
parameter and QPTs. Results obtained from these quantum information
observations are consistent with the previous reports.


Indirect Supervision for Relation Extraction using Question-Answer Pairs

  Automatic relation extraction (RE) for types of interest is of great
importance for interpreting massive text corpora in an efficient manner.
Traditional RE models have heavily relied on human-annotated corpus for
training, which can be costly in generating labeled data and become obstacles
when dealing with more relation types. Thus, more RE extraction systems have
shifted to be built upon training data automatically acquired by linking to
knowledge bases (distant supervision). However, due to the incompleteness of
knowledge bases and the context-agnostic labeling, the training data collected
via distant supervision (DS) can be very noisy. In recent years, as increasing
attention has been brought to tackling question-answering (QA) tasks, user
feedback or datasets of such tasks become more accessible. In this paper, we
propose a novel framework, ReQuest, to leverage question-answer pairs as an
indirect source of supervision for relation extraction, and study how to use
such supervision to reduce noise induced from DS. Our model jointly embeds
relation mentions, types, QA entity mention pairs and text features in two
low-dimensional spaces (RE and QA), where objects with same relation types or
semantically similar question-answer pairs have similar representations. Shared
features connect these two spaces, carrying clearer semantic knowledge from
both sources. ReQuest, then use these learned embeddings to estimate the types
of test relation mentions. We formulate a global objective function and adopt a
novel margin-based QA loss to reduce noise in DS by exploiting semantic
evidence from the QA dataset. Our experimental results achieve an average of
11% improvement in F1 score on two public RE datasets combined with TREC QA
dataset.


Synaptic Learning and Memory Functions Achieved in Self-rectifying BFO
  Memristor under Extreme Environmental Temperature

  Memristors have been intensively studied in recent years as promising
building blocks for next-generation non-volatile memory, artificial neural
networks and brain-inspired computing systems. Even though the environment
adaptability of memristor has been required in many application fields, it has
been rarely reported due to the underlying mechanism could become invalid
especially at an elevated temperature. Here, we focus on achieving synaptic
learning and memory functions in BiFeO3 memristor in a wide range of
temperature. We have proved the ferroelectricity of BFO films at a record-high
temperature of 500 {\deg}C by piezoresponse force microscopy (PFM) measurement.
Due to the robust ferroelectricity of BFO thin film, an analog-like resistance
switching behavior has been clearly found in a wide range of temperature, which
is attributed to the reversal of ferroelectric polarization. Various synaptic
functions including long-term potentiation (LTP), depression (LTD), consecutive
potentiation/depression (P/D) and spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP) have
been realized from -170 to 300 {\deg}C, illustrating their potential for
electronic applications even under extreme environmental temperature.


Anomalous CDW ground state in Cu$_2$Se: a wave-like fluctuation of
  $\it{dc}$ I-V curve near 50 K

  A charge density wave (CDW) ground state is observed in polycrystalline
Cu$_2$Se below 125 K, which corresponds to an energy gap of 40.9 meV and an
electron-phonon coupling constant of 0.6. Due to the polycrystalline structure,
the Peierls transition process has been expanded to a wide temperature range
from 90 to 160 K. The Hall carrier concentration shows a continuous decrease
from 2.1$\times$10$^{20}$ to 1.6$\times$10$^{20}$ cm$^{-3}$ in the temperature
range from 160 K to 80 K, while almost unchanged above 160 K and below 90 K.
After entering the CDW ground state, a wave-like fluctuation was observed in
the I-V curve near 50 K, which exhibits as a periodic negative differential
resistivity in an applied electric field due to the current. We also
investigated the doping effect of Zn, Ni, and Te on the CDW ground state. Both
Zn and Ni doped Cu$_2$Se show a CDW character with increased energy gap and
electron-phonon coupling constant, but no notable Peierls transition was
observed in Te doped Cu$_2$Se. Similar wave-like I-V curve was also seen in
Cu$_{1.98}$Zn$_{0.02}$Se near 40 K. The regular fluctuation in $\it{dc}$ I-V
curve was not magnetic field sensitive, but temperature and sample size
sensitive.


Mapping the emission line strengths and kinematics of Supernova Remnant
  S147 with extensive LAMOST spectroscopic observations

  We present extensive spectroscopic observations of supernova remnant (SNR)
S147 collected with the Large sky Area Multi-Object fiber Spectroscopic
Telescope (LAMOST). The spectra were carefully sky-subtracted taking into
account the complex filamentary structure of S147. We have utilized all
available LAMOST spectra toward S147, including sky and stellar spectra. By
measuring the prominent optical emission lines including H{\alpha},
[NII]{\lambda}6584, and [SII]{\lambda}{\lambda}6717,6731, we present maps of
radial velocity and line intensity ratio covering the whole nebula of S147 with
unprecedented detail. The maps spatially correlated well with the complex
filamentary structure of S147. For the central 2 deg of S147, the radial
velocity varies from -100 to 100 km/s and peaks between ~ 0 and 10 km/s. The
intensity ratios of H{\alpha}/[SII]{\lambda}{\lambda}6717,6731,
[SII]{\lambda}6717/{\lambda}6731 and H{\alpha}/[NII]{\lambda}6584 peak at about
0.77, 1.35 and 1.48, respectively, with a scatter of 0.17, 0.19 and 0.37,
respectively. The intensity ratios are consistent with the literature values.
However, the range of variations of line intensity ratios estimated here and
representative of the whole nebula, are larger than previously estimated.


The Localization of $s$-Wave and Quantum Effective Potential of a
  Quasi-Free Particle with Position-Dependent Mass

  The properties of the s-wave for a quasi-free particle with
position-dependent mass(PDM) have been discussed in details. Differed from the
system with constant mass in which the localization of the s-wave for the free
quantum particle around the origin only occurs in two dimensions, the
quasi-free particle with PDM can experience attractive forces in $D$ dimensions
except D=1 when its mass function satisfies some conditions. The effective mass
of a particle varying with its position can induce effective interaction which
may be attractive in some cases. The analytical expressions of the
eigenfunctions and the corresponding probability densities for the s-waves of
the two- and three-dimensional systems with a special PDM are given, and the
existences of localization around the origin for these systems are shown.


Broadband opto-mechanical phase shifter for photonic integrated circuits

  A broadband opto-mechanical phase shifter for photonic integrated circuits is
proposed and numerically investigated. The structure consists of a
mode-carrying waveguide and a deformable non-mode-carrying nanostring, which
are parallel with each other. Utilizing the optical gradient force between
them, the nanostring can be deflected. Thus the effective refractive indices of
the waveguide is changed with the deformation, and further causes a phase
shift. The phase shift under different geometry sizes, launched powers and
boundary conditions are calculated and the dynamical properties as well as the
thermal noise's effect are also discussed. It is demonstrated that a $\pi$
phase shift can be realized with only about 0.64 mW launched power and 50 $\mu
m$ long nanostring. The proposed phase shifter may find potential usage in
future investigation of photonic integrated circuits.


Neutron scattering study of correlated phase behavior in Sr2IrO4

  Neutron diffraction measurements are presented exploring the magnetic and
structural phase behaviors of the candidate J$_{eff}=1/2$ Mott insulating
iridate Sr$_2$IrO$_4$. Comparisons are drawn between the correlated magnetism
in this single layer system and its bilayer analog Sr$_3$Ir$_2$O$_7$ where both
materials exhibit magnetic domains originating from crystallographic twinning
and comparable moment sizes. Weakly temperature dependent superlattice peaks
violating the reported tetragonal space group of Sr$_2$IrO$_4$ are observed
supporting the notion of a lower structural symmetry arising from a high
temperature lattice distortion, and we use this to argue that moments orient
along a unique in-plane axis demonstrating an orthorhombic symmetry in the
resulting spin structure. Our results demonstrate that the correlated spin
order and structural phase behaviors in both single and bilayer
Sr$_{n+1}$Ir$_{n}$O$_{3n+1}$ systems are remarkably similar and suggest
comparable correlation strengths in each system.


A Nanoscale Shape Memory Oxide

  Stimulus-responsive shape memory materials have attracted tremendous research
interests recently, with much effort focused on improving their mechanical
actuation. Driven by the needs of nanoelectromechnical devices, materials with
large mechanical strain particularly at nanoscale are therefore desired. Here
we report on the discovery of a large shape memory effect in BiFeO3 at the
nanoscale. A maximum strain of up to ~14% and a large volumetric work density
can be achieved in association with a martensitic-like phase transformation.
With a single step, control of the phase transformation by thermal activation
or electric field has been reversibly achieved without the assistance of
external recovery stress. Although aspects such as hysteresis, micro-cracking
etc. have to be taken into consideration for real devices, the large shape
memory effect in this oxide surpasses most alloys and therefore demonstrates
itself as an extraordinary material for potential use in state-of-art
nano-systems.


Content-Based Top-N Recommendation using Heterogeneous Relations

  Top-$N$ recommender systems have been extensively studied. However, the
sparsity of user-item activities has not been well resolved. While many hybrid
systems were proposed to address the cold-start problem, the profile
information has not been sufficiently leveraged. Furthermore, the heterogeneity
of profiles between users and items intensifies the challenge. In this paper,
we propose a content-based top-$N$ recommender system by learning the global
term weights in profiles. To achieve this, we bring in PathSim, which could
well measures the node similarity with heterogeneous relations (between users
and items). Starting from the original TF-IDF value, the global term weights
gradually converge, and eventually reflect both profile and activity
information. To facilitate training, the derivative is reformulated into matrix
form, which could easily be paralleled. We conduct extensive experiments, which
demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method.


Distributed Compressive Sensing Based Doubly Selective Channel
  Estimation for Large-Scale MIMO Systems

  Doubly selective (DS) channel estimation in largescale multiple-input
multiple-output (MIMO) systems is a challenging problem due to the requirement
of unaffordable pilot overheads and prohibitive complexity. In this paper, we
propose a novel distributed compressive sensing (DCS) based channel estimation
scheme to solve this problem. In the scheme, we introduce the basis expansion
model (BEM) to reduce the required channel coefficients and pilot overheads.
And due to the common sparsity of all the transmit-receive antenna pairs in
delay domain, we estimate the BEM coefficients by considering the DCS
framework, which has a simple linear structure with low complexity. Further
more, a linear smoothing method is proposed to improve the estimation accuracy.
Finally, we conduct various simulations to verify the validity of the proposed
scheme and demonstrate the performance gains of the proposed scheme compared
with conventional schemes.


Tailoring reflection of graphene plasmons by focused ion beams

  Graphene plasmons are of remarkable features that make graphene plasmon
elements promising for applications to integrated photonic devices. The
fabrication of graphene plasmon components and control over plasmon propagating
are of fundamental important. Through near-field plasmon imaging, we
demonstrate controllable modifying of the reflection of graphene plasmon at
boundaries etched by ion beams. Moreover, by varying ion dose at a proper
value, nature like reflection boundary can be obtained. We also investigate the
influence of ion beam incident angle on plasmon reflection. To illustrate the
application of ion beam etching, a simple graphene wedge-shape plasmon
structure is fabricated and performs excellently, proving this technology as a
simple and efficient tool for controlling graphene plasmons.


Terahertz-frequency magnon-phonon-polaritons in the strong coupling
  regime

  Strong coupling between light and matter occurs when the two interact
strongly enough to form new hybrid modes called polaritons. Here we report on
the strong coupling of both the electric and magnetic degrees of freedom to an
ultrafast terahertz (THz) frequency electromagnetic wave. In our system,
optical phonons in a slab of ferroelectric lithium niobate (LiNbO$_3$) are
strongly coupled to a THz electric field to form phonon-polaritons, which are
simultaneously strongly coupled to magnons in an adjacent slab of canted
antiferromagnetic erbium orthoferrite (ErFeO$_3$) via the THz magnetic field.
The strong coupling leads to the formation of new magnon-phonon-polariton
modes, which we experimentally observe in the wavevector-frequency dispersion
curve as an avoided crossing and in the time-domain as a normal-mode beating.
Our simple yet versatile on-chip waveguide platform provides a promising avenue
by which to explore both ultrafast THz spintronics applications and the quantum
nature of the interaction.


Heterogeneous Supervision for Relation Extraction: A Representation
  Learning Approach

  Relation extraction is a fundamental task in information extraction. Most
existing methods have heavy reliance on annotations labeled by human experts,
which are costly and time-consuming. To overcome this drawback, we propose a
novel framework, REHession, to conduct relation extractor learning using
annotations from heterogeneous information source, e.g., knowledge base and
domain heuristics. These annotations, referred as heterogeneous supervision,
often conflict with each other, which brings a new challenge to the original
relation extraction task: how to infer the true label from noisy labels for a
given instance. Identifying context information as the backbone of both
relation extraction and true label discovery, we adopt embedding techniques to
learn the distributed representations of context, which bridges all components
with mutual enhancement in an iterative fashion. Extensive experimental results
demonstrate the superiority of REHession over the state-of-the-art.


An Attention-based Collaboration Framework for Multi-View Network
  Representation Learning

  Learning distributed node representations in networks has been attracting
increasing attention recently due to its effectiveness in a variety of
applications. Existing approaches usually study networks with a single type of
proximity between nodes, which defines a single view of a network. However, in
reality there usually exists multiple types of proximities between nodes,
yielding networks with multiple views. This paper studies learning node
representations for networks with multiple views, which aims to infer robust
node representations across different views. We propose a multi-view
representation learning approach, which promotes the collaboration of different
views and lets them vote for the robust representations. During the voting
process, an attention mechanism is introduced, which enables each node to focus
on the most informative views. Experimental results on real-world networks show
that the proposed approach outperforms existing state-of-the-art approaches for
network representation learning with a single view and other competitive
approaches with multiple views.


Cross-type Biomedical Named Entity Recognition with Deep Multi-Task
  Learning

  Motivation: State-of-the-art biomedical named entity recognition (BioNER)
systems often require handcrafted features specific to each entity type, such
as genes, chemicals and diseases. Although recent studies explored using neural
network models for BioNER to free experts from manual feature engineering, the
performance remains limited by the available training data for each entity
type. Results: We propose a multi-task learning framework for BioNER to
collectively use the training data of different types of entities and improve
the performance on each of them. In experiments on 15 benchmark BioNER
datasets, our multi-task model achieves substantially better performance
compared with state-of-the-art BioNER systems and baseline neural sequence
labeling models. Further analysis shows that the large performance gains come
from sharing character- and word-level information among relevant biomedical
entities across differently labeled corpora.


Efficient Contextualized Representation: Language Model Pruning for
  Sequence Labeling

  Many efforts have been made to facilitate natural language processing tasks
with pre-trained language models (LMs), and brought significant improvements to
various applications. To fully leverage the nearly unlimited corpora and
capture linguistic information of multifarious levels, large-size LMs are
required; but for a specific task, only parts of these information are useful.
Such large-sized LMs, even in the inference stage, may cause heavy computation
workloads, making them too time-consuming for large-scale applications. Here we
propose to compress bulky LMs while preserving useful information with regard
to a specific task. As different layers of the model keep different
information, we develop a layer selection method for model pruning using
sparsity-inducing regularization. By introducing the dense connectivity, we can
detach any layer without affecting others, and stretch shallow and wide LMs to
be deep and narrow. In model training, LMs are learned with layer-wise dropouts
for better robustness. Experiments on two benchmark datasets demonstrate the
effectiveness of our method.


End-to-End Reinforcement Learning for Automatic Taxonomy Induction

  We present a novel end-to-end reinforcement learning approach to automatic
taxonomy induction from a set of terms. While prior methods treat the problem
as a two-phase task (i.e., detecting hypernymy pairs followed by organizing
these pairs into a tree-structured hierarchy), we argue that such two-phase
methods may suffer from error propagation, and cannot effectively optimize
metrics that capture the holistic structure of a taxonomy. In our approach, the
representations of term pairs are learned using multiple sources of information
and used to determine \textit{which} term to select and \textit{where} to place
it on the taxonomy via a policy network. All components are trained in an
end-to-end manner with cumulative rewards, measured by a holistic tree metric
over the training taxonomies. Experiments on two public datasets of different
domains show that our approach outperforms prior state-of-the-art taxonomy
induction methods up to 19.6\% on ancestor F1.


Confinement-induced Resonance of Alkaline-earth-metal-like Atoms in
  Anisotropic Quasi-one-dimensional Traps

  We study the confinement-induced resonance (CIR) of $^{173}$Yb atoms near an
orbital Feshbach resonance in a quasi-one-dimensional tube with transversal
anisotropy. By solving the two-body scattering problem, we obtain the location
of CIR for various anisotropy ratio and magnetic field. Our results show that
the anisotropy of the trapping potential can serve as an additional knob to
tune the location of CIR. In particular, one can shift the location of CIR to
the region attainable in current experiment. We also study the energy spectrum
of the system and analyze the properties of CIR from the perspective of bound
states. We find that as the orbital Feshbach resonance acquires two nearly
degenerate scattering channels, which in general have different threshold
energies, CIR takes place when the closed channel bound state energy becomes
degenerate with one of the thresholds.


Entanglement detection by violations of noisy uncertainty relations: A
  proof of principle

  It is well-known that the violation of a local uncertainty relation can be
used as an indicator for the presence of entanglement. Unfortunately, the
practical use of these non-linear witnesses has been limited to few special
cases in the past. However, new methods for computing uncertainty bounds became
available. Here we report on an experimental implementation of
uncertainty-based entanglement witnesses, benchmarked in a regime dominated by
strong local noise. We combine the new computational method with a local noise
tomography in order to design noise-adapted entanglement witnesses. This
proof-of-principle experiment shows that quantum noise can be successfully
handled by a fully quantum model in order to enhance entanglement detection
efficiencies.


Mining Entity Synonyms with Efficient Neural Set Generation

  Mining entity synonym sets (i.e., sets of terms referring to the same entity)
is an important task for many entity-leveraging applications. Previous work
either rank terms based on their similarity to a given query term, or treats
the problem as a two-phase task (i.e., detecting synonymy pairs, followed by
organizing these pairs into synonym sets). However, these approaches fail to
model the holistic semantics of a set and suffer from the error propagation
issue. Here we propose a new framework, named SynSetMine, that efficiently
generates entity synonym sets from a given vocabulary, using example sets from
external knowledge bases as distant supervision. SynSetMine consists of two
novel modules: (1) a set-instance classifier that jointly learns how to
represent a permutation invariant synonym set and whether to include a new
instance (i.e., a term) into the set, and (2) a set generation algorithm that
enumerates the vocabulary only once and applies the learned set-instance
classifier to detect all entity synonym sets in it. Experiments on three real
datasets from different domains demonstrate both effectiveness and efficiency
of SynSetMine for mining entity synonym sets.


Cross-relation Cross-bag Attention for Distantly-supervised Relation
  Extraction

  Distant supervision leverages knowledge bases to automatically label
instances, thus allowing us to train relation extractor without human
annotations. However, the generated training data typically contain massive
noise, and may result in poor performances with the vanilla supervised
learning. In this paper, we propose to conduct multi-instance learning with a
novel Cross-relation Cross-bag Selective Attention (C$^2$SA), which leads to
noise-robust training for distant supervised relation extractor. Specifically,
we employ the sentence-level selective attention to reduce the effect of noisy
or mismatched sentences, while the correlation among relations were captured to
improve the quality of attention weights. Moreover, instead of treating all
entity-pairs equally, we try to pay more attention to entity-pairs with a
higher quality. Similarly, we adopt the selective attention mechanism to
achieve this goal. Experiments with two types of relation extractor demonstrate
the superiority of the proposed approach over the state-of-the-art, while
further ablation studies verify our intuitions and demonstrate the
effectiveness of our proposed two techniques.


First dark matter search results from the PandaX-I experiment

  We report on the first dark-matter (DM) search results from PandaX-I, a low
threshold dual-phase xenon experiment operating at the China Jinping
Underground Laboratory. In the 37-kg liquid xenon target with 17.4 live-days of
exposure, no DM particle candidate event was found. This result sets a
stringent limit for low-mass DM particles and disfavors the interpretation of
previously-reported positive experimental results. The minimum upper limit,
$3.7\times10^{-44}$\,cm$^2$, for the spin-independent isoscalar
DM-particle-nucleon scattering cross section is obtained at a DM-particle mass
of 49\,GeV/c$^2$ at 90\% confidence level.


Low-mass dark matter search results from full exposure of PandaX-I
  experiment

  We report the results of a weakly-interacting massive particle (WIMP) dark
matter search using the full 80.1\;live-day exposure of the first stage of the
PandaX experiment (PandaX-I) located in the China Jin-Ping Underground
Laboratory. The PandaX-I detector has been optimized for detecting low-mass
WIMPs, achieving a photon detection efficiency of 9.6\%. With a fiducial liquid
xenon target mass of 54.0\,kg, no significant excess event were found above the
expected background. A profile likelihood analysis confirms our earlier finding
that the PandaX-I data disfavor all positive low-mass WIMP signals reported in
the literature under standard assumptions. A stringent bound on the low mass
WIMP is set at WIMP mass below 10\,GeV/c$^2$, demonstrating that liquid xenon
detectors can be competitive for low-mass WIMP searches.


Estimating stellar atmospheric parameters, absolute magnitudes and
  elemental abundances from the LAMOST spectra with Kernel-based Principal
  Component Analysis

  Accurate determination of stellar atmospheric parameters and elemental
abundances is crucial for Galactic archeology via large-scale spectroscopic
surveys. In this paper, we estimate stellar atmospheric parameters -- effective
temperature T_{\rm eff}, surface gravity log g and metallicity [Fe/H], absolute
magnitudes M_V and M_{Ks}, {\alpha}-element to metal (and iron) abundance ratio
[{\alpha}/M] (and [{\alpha}/Fe]), as well as carbon and nitrogen abundances
[C/H] and [N/H] from the LAMOST spectra with amultivariate regressionmethod
based on kernel-based principal component analysis, using stars in common with
other surveys (Hipparcos, Kepler, APOGEE) as training data sets. Both internal
and external examinations indicate that given a spectral signal-to-noise ratio
(SNR) better than 50, our method is capable of delivering stellar parameters
with a precision of ~100K for Teff, ~0.1 dex for log g, 0.3 -- 0.4mag for M_V
and M_{Ks}, 0.1 dex for [Fe/H], [C/H] and [N/H], and better than 0.05 dex for
[{\alpha}/M] ([{\alpha}/Fe]). The results are satisfactory even for a spectral
SNR of 20. The work presents first determinations of [C/H] and [N/H] abundances
from a vast data set of LAMOST, and, to our knowledge, the first reported
implementation of absolute magnitude estimation directly based on the observed
spectra. The derived stellar parameters for millions of stars from the LAMOST
surveys will be publicly available in the form of value-added catalogues.


LAMOST Spectroscopic Survey of the Galactic Anticentre (LSS-GAC): the
  second release of value-added catalogues

  We present the second release of value-added catalogues of the LAMOST
Spectroscopic Survey of the Galactic Anticentre (LSS-GAC DR2). The catalogues
present values of radial velocity $V_{\rm r}$, atmospheric parameters ---
effective temperature $T_{\rm eff}$, surface gravity log$g$, metallicity
[Fe/H], $\alpha$-element to iron (metal) abundance ratio [$\alpha$/Fe]
([$\alpha$/M]), elemental abundances [C/H] and [N/H], and absolute magnitudes
${\rm M}_V$ and ${\rm M}_{K_{\rm s}}$ deduced from 1.8 million spectra of 1.4
million unique stars targeted by the LSS-GAC since September 2011 until June
2014. The catalogues also give values of interstellar reddening, distance and
orbital parameters determined with a variety of techniques, as well as proper
motions and multi-band photometry from the far-UV to the mid-IR collected from
the literature and various surveys. Accuracies of radial velocities reach
5kms$^{-1}$ for late-type stars, and those of distance estimates range between
10 -- 30 per cent, depending on the spectral signal-to-noise ratios. Precisions
of [Fe/H], [C/H] and [N/H] estimates reach 0.1dex, and those of [$\alpha$/Fe]
and [$\alpha$/M] reach 0.05dex. The large number of stars, the contiguous sky
coverage, the simple yet non-trivial target selection function and the robust
estimates of stellar radial velocities and atmospheric parameters, distances
and elemental abundances, make the catalogues a valuable data set to study the
structure and evolution of the Galaxy, especially the solar-neighbourhood and
the outer disk.


Ages and masses of million Galactic disk main sequence turn-off and
  sub-giant stars from the LAMOST Galactic spectroscopic surveys

  We present estimates of stellar age and mass for 0.93 million Galactic disk
main sequence turn-off and sub-giant stars from the LAMOST Galactic
Spectroscopic Surveys. The ages and masses are determined by matching with
stellar isochrones using Bayesian algorithm, utilizing effective temperature
$T_{\rm eff}$, absolute magnitude ${\rm M}_V$, metallicity [Fe/H] and
$\alpha$-element to iron abundance ratio [$\alpha$/Fe] deduced from the LAMOST
spectra. Extensive examinations suggest the age and mass estimates are robust.
The overall sample stars have a median error of 34 per cent for the age
estimates, and half of the stars older than 2\,Gyr have age uncertainties of
only 20--30 per cent. Median error for the mass estimates of the whole sample
stars is $\sim8$ per cent. The huge dataset demonstrates good correlations
among stellar age, [Fe/H] ([$\alpha$/H]) and [$\alpha$/Fe]. Particularly,
double sequence features are revealed in the both the age--[$\alpha$/Fe] and
age--[Fe/H]([$\alpha$/H]) spaces. In the [Fe/H]--[$\alpha$/Fe] space, stars of
8--10\,Gyr exhibit both the thin and thick disk sequences, while younger
(older) stars show only the thin (thick) disk sequence, indicating that the
thin disk became prominent 8--10\,Gyr ago, while the thick disk formed earlier
and almost quenched 8\,Gyr ago. Stellar ages exhibit positive vertical and
negative radial gradients across the disk, and the outer disk of
$R\gtrsim$\,9\,kpc exhibits a strong flare in stellar age distribution.


White dwarf-main sequence binaries from LAMOST: the DR1 catalogue

  Context. White dwarf-main sequence (WDMS) binaries are used to study several
different important open problems in modern astrophysics.
  Aims. The Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) identified the largest catalogue of
WDMS binaries currently known. However, this sample is seriously affected by
selection effects and the population of systems containing cool white dwarfs
and early-type companions is under-represented.Here we search for WDMS binaries
within the spectroscopic data release 1 of the LAMOST (Large sky Area
Multi-Object fiber Spectroscopic Telescope) survey. LAMOST and SDSS follow
different target selection algorithms. Hence, LAMOST WDMS binaries may be drawn
from a different parent population and thus help in overcoming the selection
effects incorporated by SDSS on the current observed population.
  Methods. We develop a fast and efficient routine based on the wavelet
transform to identify LAMOST WDMS binaries containing a DA white dwarf and a M
dwarf companion, and apply a decomposition/fitting routine to their LAMOST
spectra to estimate their distances and measure their stellar parameters,
namely the white dwarf effective temperatures, surface gravities and masses,
and the secondary star spectral types.
  Results. We identify 121 LAMOST WDMS binaries, 80 of which are new
discoveries, and estimate the sample to be \sim90 per cent complete. The LAMOST
and SDSS WDMS binaries are found to be statistically different. However, this
result is not due to the different target selection criteria of both surveys,
but likely a simple consequence of the different observing conditions. Thus,
the LAMOST population is found at considerably shorter distances (\sim50-450
pc) and is dominated by systems containing early-type companions and hot white
dwarfs. (abridged)


On the LSP3 estimates of surface gravity for LAMOST-Kepler stars with
  asteroseismic measurements

  Asteroseismology allows for deriving precise values of surface gravity of
stars. The accurate asteroseismic determinations now available for large number
of stars in the Kepler fields can be used to check and calibrate surface
gravities that are currently being obtained spectroscopically for a huge
numbers of stars targeted by large-scale spectroscopic surveys, such as the
on-going Large Sky Area Multi-Object Fiber Spectroscopic Telescope (LAMOST)
Galactic survey. The LAMOST spectral surveys have obtained a large number of
stellar spectra in the Kepler fields. Stellar atmospheric parameters of those
stars have been determined with the LAMOST Stellar Parameter Pipeline at Peking
University (LSP3), by template matching with the MILES empirical spectral
library. In the current work, we compare surface gravities yielded by LSP3 with
those of two asteroseismic samples - the largest sample from Huber et al.
(2014) and the most accurate sample from Hekker et al. (2012, 2013). We find
that LSP3 surface gravities are in good agreement with asteroseismic values of
Hekker et al. (2012, 2013), with a dispersion of about 0.2 dex. Except for a
few cases, asteroseismic surface gravities of Huber et al. (2014) and LSP3
spectroscopic values agree for a wide range of surface gravities. However, some
patterns of differences can be identified upon close inspection. Potential ways
to further improve the LSP3 spectroscopic estimation of stellar atmospheric
parameters in the near future are briefly discussed. The effects of effective
temperature and metallicity on asteroseismic determinations of surface
gravities for giant stars are also discussed.


