On total colorings of 1-planar graphs

  A graph is 1-planar if it can be drawn on the plane so that each edge is
crossed by at most one other edge. In this paper, we confirm the total-coloring
conjecture for 1-planar graphs with maximum degree at least 13.


Knots in $SU\left(M|N\right) $ Chern-Simons Field Theory

  Knots in the Chern-Simons field theory with Lie super gauge group
$SU\left(M|N\right) $ are studied, and the $% S_{L}\left(\alpha,\beta,z\right)
$ polynomial invariant with skein relations are obtained under the fundamental
representation of $\mathfrak{su}\left(M|N\right) $.


Edge Coloring of Triangle-Free 1-Planar Graphs

  it is shown that each triangle-free 1-planar graph with maximum degree
$\Delta\geq7$ can be $\Delta$-colorable by Discharging Method.


Well-posedness of strong solutions to the anelastic equations for
  viscous flows

  We address the local and global well-posedness issues of strong solutions to
the anelastic equations for viscous flows. The density profile is taken to
satisfy physical vacuum singularity, and the interaction of the density profile
with the velocity fields is taken into account. The existing time of the
solutions is global in two dimension with general initial data, and in three
dimension with small initial data.


List (d,1)-total labelling of graphs embedded in surfaces

  The (d,1)-total labelling of graphs was introduced by Havet and Yu. In this
paper, we consider the list version of (d,1)-total labelling of graphs. Let G
be a graph embedded in a surface with Euler characteristic $\epsilon$ whose
maximum degree $\Delta(G)$ is sufficiently large. We prove that the (d,1)-total
choosability $C_{d,1}^T(G)$ of $G$ is at most $\Delta(G)+2d$.


Some results on space-like self-shrinkers

  We study space-like self-shrinkers of dimension $n$ in pseudo-Euclidean space
$\ir{m+n}_m$with index $m$. We derive drift Laplacian of the basic geometric
quantities and obtain their volume estimates in pseudo-distance function.
Finally, we prove a rigidity results under minor growth conditions interms of
the mean curvature or the image of Gauss maps.


A blow-up criterion for the compressible liquid crystals system

  In this paper, we establish a blow-up criterion for the compressible liquid
crystals equations in terms of the gradient of the velocity only, similar to
the Beale-Kato-Majda criterion \cite{majda} for ideal incompressible flows and
the criterion obtained by Huang and Xin \cite{xin2} for the compressible
Navier-Stokes equations.


Conditions for the vanishing of the genus-2 G-function

  In this paper we give some sufficient conditions for the vanishing of the
genus-2 G-function, which was introduced by B. Dubrovin, S. Liu and Y. Zhang in
[DLZ]. As a corollary we prove their conjecture for the vanishing of the
genus-2 G-function for ADE singularities.


Spinor Decomposition of SU(2) Gauge Potential and The Spinor Structures
  of Chern-Simons and Chern Density

  In this paper, the decomposition of SU(2) gauge potential in terms of Pauli
spinors is studied. Using this decomposition, the spinor strutures of the
Chern-Simons form and the Chern density are obtained. Furthermore, by these
spinor structures, the knot quantum number of non-Abelian gauge theory is
discussed, and the second Chern number is characterized by the Hopf indices and
the Brouwer degrees of $\phi $-mapping.


Amino acid substitution matrices for protein conformation identification

  Methods for alignment of protein sequences typically measure similarity by
using substitution matrix with scores for all possible exchanges of one amino
acid with another. Although widely used, the matrices derived from homologous
sequence segments, such as Dayhoff's PAM matrices and Henikoff's BLOSUM
matrices, are not specific for protein conformation identification. Using a
different approach, we got many amino acid segment blocks. For each of them,
the protein secondary structure is identical. Based on these blocks, we have
derived new amino acid substitution matrices. The application of these matrices
led to marked improvements in conformation segment search and homologues
detection in twilight zone.


Knot polynomial invariants in classical Abelian Chern-Simons field
  theory

  Kauffman knot polynomial invariants are discovered in classical abelian
Chern-Simons field theory. A topological invariant $t^{I\left( \mathcal{L}
\right) }$ is constructed for a link $\mathcal{L}$, where $I$ is the abelian
Chern-Simons action and $t$ a formal constant. For oriented knotted vortex
lines, $t^{I}$ satisfies the skein relations of the Kauffman R-polynomial; for
un-oriented knotted lines, $t^{I}$ satisfies the skein relations of the
Kauffman bracket polynomial. As an example the bracket polynomials of trefoil
knots are computed, and the Jones polynomial is constructed from the bracket
polynomial.


A remote response of ATP hydrolysis

  ATP-hydrolysis is the basic energy source of many physiological processes,
but there is a lack of knowledge regarding its biological role other than
energy transfer and thermogenesis. Not all the energy released by
ATP-hydrolysis could be used in powering target biological processes and
functions. Partial energy dissipates into water. By validating the impact of
this dissipated energy, we found that energy released by ATP hydrolysis could
induce notable regulation of biomolecule's properties 100 nanometers away.
Namely ATP hydrolyzation is recycled in remote biochemical property modulation.


On the Łojasiewicz Exponent of the Quadratic Sphere Constrained
  Optimization Problem

  In this paper, we prove that the global version of the ${\L}$ojasiewicz
gradient inequality holds for quadratic sphere constrained optimization problem
with exponent $\theta=\frac{3}{4}$. An example from Ting Kei Pong shows that
$\theta=\frac{3}{4}$ is tight. This is the first ${\L}$ojasiewicz gradient
inequality established for the sphere constrained optimization problem with a
linear term.


A Model of Radiational Gaseous Stars

  We introduce a model concerning radiational gaseous stars and establish the
existence theory of stationary solutions to the free boundary problem of
hydrostatic equations describing the radiative equilibrium. We also concern the
local well-posedness of the moving boundary problem of the corresponding
Navier-Stokes-Fourier-Poisson system and construct a prior estimates of strong
and classical solutions. Our results explore the vacuum behaviour of density
and temperature near the free boundary for the equilibrium and capture such
degeneracy in the evolutionary problem.


Topological invariants for superconducting cosmic strings

  Superconducting cosmic strings (SCSs) have received revived interests
recently. In this paper we treat closed SCSs as oriented knotted line defects,
and concentrate on their topology by studying the Hopf topological invariant.
This invariant is an Abelian Chern-Simons action, from which the HOMFLYPT knot
polynomial can be constructed. It is shown that the two independent parameters
of the polynomial correspond to the writhe and twist contributions, separately.
This new method is topologically stronger than the traditional (self-) linking
number method which fails to detect essential topology of knots sometimes,
shedding new light upon the study of physical intercommunications of
superconducting cosmic strings as a complex system.


On the Expanding Configurations of Viscous Radiation Gaseous Stars:
  Isentropic and Thermodynamic Models

  In this work, we study the stability of the expanding configurations for
radiation gaseous stars. Such expanding configurations exist for the isentropic
model and the thermodynamic model. In particular, we focus on the effect of the
monatomic gas viscosity tensor on the expanding configurations. With respect to
small perturbation, it is shown the self-similarly expanding homogeneous
solutions of the isentropic model is unstable, while the linearly expanding
homogeneous solutions of the isentropic model and the thermodynamic model are
stable. This is an extensive study of the result in arXiv:1605.08083 by Hadzic
and Jang.


A Parallel Orbital-updating Based Optimization Method for Electronic
  Structure Calculations

  In this paper, we propose a parallel optimization method for electronic
structure calculations based on a single orbital-updating approximation. It is
shown by our numerical experiments that the method is efficient and reliable
for atomic and molecular systems of large scale over supercomputers.


Possibility of Inhomogeneous Coupling Leading to Decoherence in an
  Electromagnetically-Induced-Transparency Quantum-Memory Process

  The effect of inhomogeneous coupling between three-level atoms and external
light fields is studied in the electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT)
quantum memory techqnique. By introducing a subensemble-atomic system to deal
with present inhomogeneous coupling case, we find there is a non-symmetric
dark-state subspace (DSS) that allows the EIT quantum memory technique to
function perfectly. This shows that such memory scheme can work ideally even if
the atomic state is very far from being a symmetric one.


Classical and quantum depinning of a domain wall with a spin-polarized
  current

  We study in detail the classical and quantum depinning of a domain wall (DW)
induced by a fast-varying spin-polarized current. By confirming the adiabatic
condition for calculating the spin-torque in fast-varying current case, we show
that the time-dependent spin current has two critical values that determine the
classical depinning of DW. This discovery successfully explains the recent
experiments. Furthermore, a feasible way is proposed to lower the threshold of
spin currents and control the direction of DW's motion. Finally, the quantum
properties for the depinning of DW are also investigated in this paper.


Simplified amino acid alphabets based on deviation of conditional
  probability from random background

  The primitive data for deducing the Miyazawa-Jernigan contact energy or
BLOSUM score matrix consists of pair frequency counts. Each amino acid
corresponds to a conditional probability distribution. Based on the deviation
of such conditional probability from random background, a scheme for reduction
of amino acid alphabet is proposed. It is observed that evident discrepancy
exists between reduced alphabets obtained from raw data of the
Miyazawa-Jernigan's and BLOSUM's residue pair counts. Taking homologous
sequence database SCOP40 as a test set, we detect homology with the obtained
coarse-grained substitution matrices. It is verified that the reduced alphabets
obtained well preserve information contained in the original 20-letter
alphabet.


On quasi-periodic solutions of the discrete Chen-Lee-Liu hierarchy

  Resorting to the Lax matrix and elliptic variables, the discrete Chen-Lee-Liu
hierarchy is decomposed into solvable ordinary differential equations. Based on
the theory of algebraic curve, the continuous flow and discrete flow related to
the discrete Chen-Lee-Liu hierarchy are straightened under the Abel-Jacobi
coordinates. The meromorphic function $\phi$, the Baker-Akhiezer vector
$\bar\psi $ and the hyperelliptic curve $\mathcal{K}_N$ are introduced, by
which quasi-periodic solutions of the discrete Chen-Lee-Liu hierarchy are
constructed according to the asymptotic properties and the algebro-geometric
characters of $\phi,\ \bar\psi $ and $\mathcal{K}_N$.


A Dynamic Algorithm for Blind Separation of Convolutive Sound Mixtures

  We study an efficient dynamic blind source separation algorithm of
convolutive sound mixtures based on updating statistical information in the
frequency domain, andminimizing the support of time domain demixing filters by
a weighted least square method. The permutation and scaling indeterminacies of
separation, and concatenations of signals in adjacent time frames are resolved
with optimization of $l^1 \times l^\infty$ norm on cross-correlation
coefficients at multiple time lags. The algorithm is a direct method without
iterations, and is adaptive to the environment. Computations on recorded and
synthetic mixtures of speech and music signals show excellent performance.


On Exponential Time Lower Bound of Knapsack under Backtracking

  M.Aleknovich et al. have recently proposed a model of algorithms, called BT
model, which generalizes both the priority model of Borodin, Nielson and
Rackoff, as well as a simple dynamic programming model by Woeginger. BT model
can be further divided into three kinds of fixed, adaptive and fully adaptive
ones. They have proved exponential time lower bounds of exact and approximation
algorithms under adaptive BT model for Knapsack problem. Their exact lower
bound is $\Omega(2^{0.5n}/\sqrt{n})$, in this paper, we slightly improve the
exact lower bound to about $\Omega(2^{0.69n}/\sqrt{n})$, by the same technique,
with related parameters optimized.


On the existence of min-max minimal torus

  In this paper, we will study the existence problem of minmax minimal torus.
We use classical conformal invariant geometric variational methods. We prove a
theorem about the existence of minmax minimal torus in Theorem 5.1. Firstly we
prove a strong uniformization result(Proposition 3.1) using method of [1]. Then
we use this proposition to choose good parametrization for our minmax
sequences. We prove a compactification result(Lemma 4.1) similar to that of
Colding and Minicozzi [2], and then give bubbling convergence results similar
to that of Ding, Li and Liu [7]. In fact, we get an approximating result
similar to the classical deformation lemma(Theorem 1.1).


Group edge choosability of planar graphs without adjacent short cycles

  In this paper, we aim to introduce the group version of edge coloring and
list edge coloring, and prove that all 2-degenerate graphs along with some
planar graphs without adjacent short cycles is group
$(\Delta(G)+1)$-edge-choosable while some planar graphs with large girth and
maximum degree is group $\Delta(G)$-edge-choosable.


Total coloring of pseudo-outerplanar graphs

  A graph is pseudo-outerplanar if each of its blocks has an embedding in the
plane so that the vertices lie on a fixed circle and the edges lie inside the
disk of this circle with each of them crossing at most one another. In this
paper, the total coloring conjecture is completely confirmed for
pseudo-outerplanar graphs. In particular, it is proved that the total chromatic
number of every pseudo-outerplanar graph with maximum degree $\Delta\geq 5$ is
$\Delta+1$.


Explicit solutions, conservation laws of the extended (2+1)-dimensional
  Jaulent-Miodek equation

  By applying the direct symmetry method, the symmetry reductions and some new
group invariant solutions were obtained, We have derived some exact solutions
by using the relationship between the new solutions and the old ones, which
include Weierstrass periodic solutions, elliptic periodic solutions, triangular
function solutions and so on. Also, in order to reflect the characteristics and
properties of this solutions, we give figures of some solutions. In addition,
we give the conservation laws of the extended (2+1)-dimensional Jaulent-Miodek
equation. At last, we draw conclusions and discuss it.


Transitionless-based shortcuts for rapidly generating two-atom 3D
  entanglement

  An experimentally feasible scheme is proposed for rapidly generating two-atom
three-dimensional (3D) entanglement with one step. As one technique of
shortcuts to adiabaticity, transitionless quantum driving is applied to speed
up the adiabatic generation of two-atom 3D entanglement. Apart from the rapid
rate, the scheme has much higher experimental feasibility than the recent
research (Quant. Inf. Process. DOI: 10.1007/s11128-016-1453-2, 2016). Besides,
numerical simulations indicate the scheme has strong robustness against
parameter deviations and decoherence.


Prune the Convolutional Neural Networks with Sparse Shrink

  Nowadays, it is still difficult to adapt Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)
based models for deployment on embedded devices. The heavy computation and
large memory footprint of CNN models become the main burden in real
application. In this paper, we propose a "Sparse Shrink" algorithm to prune an
existing CNN model. By analyzing the importance of each channel via sparse
reconstruction, the algorithm is able to prune redundant feature maps
accordingly. The resulting pruned model thus directly saves computational
resource. We have evaluated our algorithm on CIFAR-100. As shown in our
experiments, we can reduce 56.77% parameters and 73.84% multiplication in total
with only minor decrease in accuracy. These results have demonstrated the
effectiveness of our "Sparse Shrink" algorithm.


Darboux Transformation for the Nonisospectral and Variable-coefficient
  KdV Equation

  With the nonuniform media taken into account, the nonisospectral and
variable-coefficient Korteweg-de Vries equation, which describes various
physical situations such as fluid dynamics and plasma, is under investigation
in this paper. With appropriate selection of wave functions, the Darboux
transformation is constructed, by which the multi-soliton solutions are derived
and graphs are presented. The spectral parameters, coefficients and initial
phase are discussed analytically and numerically to demonstrate their
respective effect on the soliton dynamics, which plays a role in achieving the
feasible soliton management with explicit conditions taken into account.


Accelerating Human-in-the-loop Machine Learning: Challenges and
  Opportunities

  Development of machine learning (ML) workflows is a tedious process of
iterative experimentation: developers repeatedly make changes to workflows
until the desired accuracy is attained. We describe our vision for a
"human-in-the-loop" ML system that accelerates this process: by intelligently
tracking changes and intermediate results over time, such a system can enable
rapid iteration, quick responsive feedback, introspection and debugging, and
background execution and automation. We finally describe Helix, our preliminary
attempt at such a system that has already led to speedups of up to 10x on
typical iterative workflows against competing systems.


Nonlocal symmetries and exact solutions of variable coefficient AKNS
  system

  In this paper, nonlocal symmetries of variable coefficient
Ablowitz-Kaup-Newell-Segur(AKNS) system are discussed for the first time. With
lax pair of time-dependent coefficient AKNS system, the nonlocal symmetries are
obtained, and they are successfully localized to a Lie point symmetries by
introducing a suitable auxiliary dependent variable. Furthermore, using the
obtained Lie point symmetries of closed system, we give out two types of
symmetry reduction and explicit analytic solutions. For some interesting
solutions, the figures are given out to show their dynamic behavior.


High order nonlocal symmetries and exact solutions of variable
  coefficient KdV equation

  In this paper, nonlocal symmetries and exact solutions of variable
coefficient Korteweg-de Vries (KdV) equation are studied for the first time.
Using pseudo-potential, high order nonlocal symmetries of time-dependent
coefficient KdV equation are obtained. In order to construct new exact analytic
solutions, new variables are introduced, which can transform nonlocal
symmetries into Lie point symmetries. Furthermore, using the Lie point
symmetries of closed system, we give symmetry reduction and some exact analytic
solutions. For some interesting solutions, such as interaction solutions among
solitons and other complicated waves are discussed in detail, and the
corresponding images are given to illustrate their dynamic behavior.


Superimposition-guided Facial Reconstruction from Skull

  We develop a new algorithm to perform facial reconstruction from a given
skull. This technique has forensic application in helping the identification of
skeletal remains when other information is unavailable. Unlike most existing
strategies that directly reconstruct the face from the skull, we utilize a
database of portrait photos to create many face candidates, then perform a
superimposition to get a well matched face, and then revise it according to the
superimposition. To support this pipeline, we build an effective autoencoder
for image-based facial reconstruction, and a generative model for constrained
face inpainting. Our experiments have demonstrated that the proposed pipeline
is stable and accurate.


Nonlocal symmetries and exact solutions of the (2+1)-dimensional
  generalised variable coefficient shallow water wave equation

  In this paper, using the standard truncated Painleve analysis, the
Schwartzian equation of (2+1)-dimensional generalised variable coefficient
shallow water wave (SWW)equation is obtained. With the help of lax pairs,
nonlocal symmetries of the SWW equation are constructed which be localized by a
complicated calculation process. Furthermore, using the Lie point symmetries of
the closed system and Schwartzian equation, some exact interaction solutions
are obtained, such as soliton-cnoidal wave solutions. Corresponding 2D and 3D
figures are placed on illustrate dynamic behavior of the generalised variable
coefficient SWW equation.


Modeling, discretization, and hyperchaos detection of conformable
  derivative approach to a financial system with market confidence and ethics
  risk

  A new chaotic financial system is proposed by considering ethics involvement
in a four-dimensional financial system with market confidence. A
five-dimensional conformable derivative financial system is presented by
introducing conformable fractional calculus to the integer-order system. A
discretization scheme is proposed to calculate numerical solutions of
conformable derivative systems. The scheme is illustrated by testing hyperchaos
for the system.


Static Quark Potential and the Renormalized Anisotropy on Tadpole
  Improved Anisotropic Lattices

  Static quark potential is studied using a tadpole improved gauge lattice
action. The scale is set using the potential for a wide range of bare
parameters.
  The renormalized anisotropy of the lattice is also measured.


Group delay of electromagnetic pulses through multilayer dielectric
  mirrors beyond special relativity

  In this Letter, we investigate the group delay of optical pulses through
multilayer dielectric mirrors (MDM) combined with gravitational wave (GW). We
find that the delay increases linearly with MDM length for the transmitted wave
packet, whereas the Hartman effect disappears. Our study provides insight into
the nature of both quantum tunnelling and GW.


Genus-2 G-function for $P^1$ orbifolds

  In this paper we prove that for Gromov-Witten theory of $P^1$ orbifolds of
ADE type the genus-2 G-function introduced by B. Dubrovin, S. Liu, and Y. Zhang
vanishes. Together with our results in [LW], this completely solves the main
conjecture in their paper [DLZ]. In the process, we also found a sufficient
condition for the vanishing of the genus-2 G-function which is weaker than the
condition given in our previous paper [LW].


Control of Josephson current by Aharonov-Casher Phase in a Rashba Ring

  We study the interference effect induced by the Aharonov-Casher phase on the
Josephson current through a semiconducting ring attached to superconducting
leads. Using a 1D model that incorporates spin-orbit coupling in the
semiconducting ring, we calculate the Andreev levels analytically and
numerically, and predict oscillations of the Josephson current due to the AC
phase. This result is valid from the point contact limit to the long channel
length limit, as defined by the ratio of the junction length and the BCS
healing length. We show in the long channel length limit that the impurity
scattering has no effect on the oscillation of the Josephson current, in
contrast to the case of conductivity oscillations in a spin-orbit coupled ring
system attached to normal leads where impurity scattering reduces the amplitude
of oscillations. Our results suggest a new scheme to measure the AC phase with,
in principle, higher sensitivity. In addition, this effect allows for control
of the Josephson current through the gate voltage tuned AC phase.


Spin dynamics in the strong spin-orbit coupling regime

  We study the spin dynamics in a high-mobility two dimensional electron gas
(2DEG) with generic spin-orbit interactions (SOIs). We derive a set of spin
dynamic equations which capture the purely exponential to the damped
oscillatory spin evolution modes observed in different regimes of SOI strength.
Hence we provide a full treatment of the D'yakonov-Perel's mechanism by using
the microscopic linear response theory from the weak to the strong SOI limit.
We show that the damped oscillatory modes appear when the electron scattering
time is larger than half of the spin precession time due to the SOI, in
agreement with recent observations. We propose a new way to measure the
scattering time and the relative strength of Rashba and linear Dresselhaus SOIs
based on these modes and optical grating experiments. We discuss the physical
interpretation of each of these modes in the context of Rabi oscillation.


In-plane Magnetization Induced Quantum Anomalous Hall Effect

  In a two-dimensional electron gas, the quantized Hall conductance can be
induced by a strong magnetic field, known as the quantum Hall effect, and it
can also result from the strong exchange coupling of magnetic ions, dubbed as
the "quantum anomalous Hall effect". The quantum Hall effect requires the
out-of-plane magnetic field, and similarly, it is commonly believed that the
magnetization should be out-of-plane for the quantum anomalous Hall effect. In
the present work, we find this condition is not necessary and predict that the
quantum anomalous Hall effect can also be induced by the purely in-plane
magnetization in two realistic systems, including Bi$_2$Te$_3$ thin film with
magnetic doping and HgMnTe quantum wells with shear strains, when all the
reflection symmetries are broken. An experimental setup is proposed to confirm
this effect, the observation of which will pave the way to search for the
quantum anomalous Hall effect in a wider range of materials.


Majorana spintronics

  We propose a systematic magnetic-flux-free approach to detect, manipulate and
braid Majorana fermions in a semiconductor nanowire-based topological Josephson
junction by utilizing the Majorana spin degree of freedom. We find an intrinsic
$\pi$-phase difference between spin-triplet pairings enforced by the Majorana
zeros modes (MZMs) at the two ends of a one-dimensional spinful topological
superconductor. This $\pi$-phase is identified to be a spin-dependent
superconducting phase, referred to as the spin-phase, which we show to be
tunable by controlling spin-orbit coupling strength via electric gates. This
electric controllable spin-phase not only affects the coupling energy between
MZMs but also leads to a fractional Josephson effect in the absence of any
applied magnetic flux, which enables the efficient topological qubit readout.
We thus propose an all-electrically controlled superconductor-semiconductor
hybrid circuit to manipulate MZMs and to detect their non-Abelian braiding
statistics properties. Our work on spin properties of topological Josephson
effects potentially opens up a new thrust for spintronic applications with
Majorana-based semiconductor quantum circuits.


Long-Range Spin-Triplet Helix in Proximity Induced Superconductivity in
  Spin-Orbit-Coupled Systems

  We study proximity induced triplet superconductivity in a spin-orbit-coupled
system, and show that the \textbf{d} vector of the induced triplet
superconductivity undergoes precession that can be controlled by varying the
relative strengths of Rashba and Dresselhaus spin-orbit couplings. In
particular, a long-range spin-triplet helix is predicted when these two
spin-orbit couplings have equal strengths. We also study the Josephson junction
geometry and show that a transition between 0 and $\pi$ junctions can be
induced by controlling the spin-orbit coupling with a gate voltage. An
experimental setup is proposed to verify these effects. Conversely, the
observation of these effects can serve as a direct confirmation of triplet
superconductivity.


A framework for community detection in heterogeneous multi-relational
  networks

  There has been a surge of interest in community detection in homogeneous
single-relational networks which contain only one type of nodes and edges.
However, many real-world systems are naturally described as heterogeneous
multi-relational networks which contain multiple types of nodes and edges. In
this paper, we propose a new method for detecting communities in such networks.
Our method is based on optimizing the composite modularity, which is a new
modularity proposed for evaluating partitions of a heterogeneous
multi-relational network into communities. Our method is parameter-free,
scalable, and suitable for various networks with general structure. We
demonstrate that it outperforms the state-of-the-art techniques in detecting
pre-planted communities in synthetic networks. Applied to a real-world Digg
network, it successfully detects meaningful communities.


Mean curvature Flow with convex Gauss image

  We study the mean curvature flow of complete space-like submanifolds in
pseudo-Euclidean space with bounded Gauss image, as well as that of complete
submanifolds in Euclidean space with convex Gauss image. By using the
confinable property of the Gauss image under the mean curvature flow we prove
the long time existence results in both cases. We also study the asymptotic
behavior of these solutions when $t\to\infty$.


A protein structural alphabet and its substitution matrix CLESUM

  By using a mixture model for the density distribution of the three pseudobond
angles formed by $C_\alpha$ atoms of four consecutive residues, the local
structural states are discretized as 17 conformational letters of a protein
structural alphabet. This coarse-graining procedure converts a 3D structure to
a 1D code sequence. A substitution matrix between these letters is constructed
based on the structural alignments of the FSSP database.


Generic Extensional Framework for the Memristive Systems

  Considering the over-requirement of continuity and "well-defined" confined by
the canonical framework model for memristive systems, this short paper proposes
a more generic extensional framework to accommodate those discontinuity or not
"well-defined" situation. In particular, two special subclasses are pointed out
to fit the hitherto memristor device models.


Quantum Spin Current Induced Through Optical Fields

  We propose a scheme to generate quantum spin current via optical dipole
transition process. By coupling a three-level system based on the spin states
of charged particles (electrons or holes in semiconductor) to the angular
momentum states of the radiation, we show that a pure quantum spin current can
be generated. No spin-orbit interaction is needed in this scheme. We also
calculate the effect of nonmagnetic impurities on the created spin currents and
show that the vertex correction of the spin hall conductivity in the ladder
approximation is exactly zero.


Two Particle States in an Asymmetric Box

  The exact two-particle energy eigenstates in an asymmetric rectangular box
with periodic boundary conditions in all three directions are studied. Their
relation with the elastic scattering phases of the two particles in the
continuum are obtained. These results can be viewed as a generalization of the
corresponding formulae in a cubic box obtained by L\"uscher before. In
particular, the s-wave scattering length is related to the energy shift in the
finite box. Possible applications of these formulae are also discussed.


