Terahertz conductivity of twisted bilayer graphene

  Using terahertz time-domain spectroscopy, the real part of optical
conductivity [$\sigma_{1}(\omega)$] of twisted bilayer graphene was obtained at
different temperatures (10 -- 300 K) in the frequency range 0.3 -- 3 THz. On
top of a Drude-like response, we see a strong peak in $\sigma_{1} (\omega)$ at
$\sim$2.7 THz. We analyze the overall Drude-like response using a
disorder-dependent (unitary scattering) model, then attribute the peak at 2.7
THz to an enhanced density of states at that energy, that is caused by the
presence of a van Hove singularity arising from a commensurate twisting of the
two graphene layers.


Ultrafast carrier phonon dynamics in NaOH-reacted graphite oxide film

  NaOH-reacted graphite oxide film was prepared by decomposing epoxy groups in
graphite oxide into hydroxyl and -ONa groups with NaOH solution. Ultrafast
carrier dynamics of the sample were studied by time-resolved transient
differential reflection (\DeltaR/R). The data show two exponential relaxation
processes. The slow relaxation process (\sim2ps) is ascribed to low energy
acoustic phonon mediated scattering. The electron-phonon coupling and
first-principles calculation results demonstrate that - OH and -ONa groups in
the sample are strongly coupled. Thus, we attribute the fast relaxation process
(\sim0.17ps) to the coupling of hydroxyl and -ONa groups in the sample.


Temperature-dependent terahertz conductivity of topological insulator
  Bi$_{1.5}$Sb$_{0.5}$Te$_{1.8}$Se$_{1.2}$

  Using Terahertz Time-Domain Spectroscopy, we study the temperature-dependent
complex optical conductivity of the topological insulator,
Bi$_{1.5}$Sb$_{0.5}$Te$_{1.8}$Se$_{1.2}$ single-crystal from 5 K to 150 K in
the terahertz regime (0.4 -- 3.0 THz). We analyze our experimental results
using the Drude-Lorentz model, with the Drude component representing the
metallic surface state and the Lorentz term representing the bulk insulating
state. We find the conductivity to be dominated by the Drude contribution,
suggesting the presence of metallic surface states. The low-frequency real
conductivity follows a thermally-activated behavior. Its origin is also
discussed.


Transfer Learning across Networks for Collective Classification

  This paper addresses the problem of transferring useful knowledge from a
source network to predict node labels in a newly formed target network. While
existing transfer learning research has primarily focused on vector-based data,
in which the instances are assumed to be independent and identically
distributed, how to effectively transfer knowledge across different information
networks has not been well studied, mainly because networks may have their
distinct node features and link relationships between nodes. In this paper, we
propose a new transfer learning algorithm that attempts to transfer common
latent structure features across the source and target networks. The proposed
algorithm discovers these latent features by constructing label propagation
matrices in the source and target networks, and mapping them into a shared
latent feature space. The latent features capture common structure patterns
shared by two networks, and serve as domain-independent features to be
transferred between networks. Together with domain-dependent node features, we
thereafter propose an iterative classification algorithm that leverages label
correlations to predict node labels in the target network. Experiments on
real-world networks demonstrate that our proposed algorithm can successfully
achieve knowledge transfer between networks to help improve the accuracy of
classifying nodes in the target network.


Search Efficient Binary Network Embedding

  Traditional network embedding primarily focuses on learning a dense vector
representation for each node, which encodes network structure and/or node
content information, such that off-the-shelf machine learning algorithms can be
easily applied to the vector-format node representations for network analysis.
However, the learned dense vector representations are inefficient for
large-scale similarity search, which requires to find the nearest neighbor
measured by Euclidean distance in a continuous vector space. In this paper, we
propose a search efficient binary network embedding algorithm called BinaryNE
to learn a sparse binary code for each node, by simultaneously modeling node
context relations and node attribute relations through a three-layer neural
network. BinaryNE learns binary node representations efficiently through a
stochastic gradient descent based online learning algorithm. The learned binary
encoding not only reduces memory usage to represent each node, but also allows
fast bit-wise comparisons to support much quicker network node search compared
to Euclidean distance or other distance measures. Our experiments and
comparisons show that BinaryNE not only delivers more than 23 times faster
search speed, but also provides comparable or better search quality than
traditional continuous vector based network embedding methods.


Network Representation Learning: A Survey

  With the widespread use of information technologies, information networks are
becoming increasingly popular to capture complex relationships across various
disciplines, such as social networks, citation networks, telecommunication
networks, and biological networks. Analyzing these networks sheds light on
different aspects of social life such as the structure of societies,
information diffusion, and communication patterns. In reality, however, the
large scale of information networks often makes network analytic tasks
computationally expensive or intractable. Network representation learning has
been recently proposed as a new learning paradigm to embed network vertices
into a low-dimensional vector space, by preserving network topology structure,
vertex content, and other side information. This facilitates the original
network to be easily handled in the new vector space for further analysis. In
this survey, we perform a comprehensive review of the current literature on
network representation learning in the data mining and machine learning field.
We propose new taxonomies to categorize and summarize the state-of-the-art
network representation learning techniques according to the underlying learning
mechanisms, the network information intended to preserve, as well as the
algorithmic designs and methodologies. We summarize evaluation protocols used
for validating network representation learning including published benchmark
datasets, evaluation methods, and open source algorithms. We also perform
empirical studies to compare the performance of representative algorithms on
common datasets, and analyze their computational complexity. Finally, we
suggest promising research directions to facilitate future study.


MetaGraph2Vec: Complex Semantic Path Augmented Heterogeneous Network
  Embedding

  Network embedding in heterogeneous information networks (HINs) is a
challenging task, due to complications of different node types and rich
relationships between nodes. As a result, conventional network embedding
techniques cannot work on such HINs. Recently, metapath-based approaches have
been proposed to characterize relationships in HINs, but they are ineffective
in capturing rich contexts and semantics between nodes for embedding learning,
mainly because (1) metapath is a rather strict single path node-node
relationship descriptor, which is unable to accommodate variance in
relationships, and (2) only a small portion of paths can match the metapath,
resulting in sparse context information for embedding learning. In this paper,
we advocate a new metagraph concept to capture richer structural contexts and
semantics between distant nodes. A metagraph contains multiple paths between
nodes, each describing one type of relationships, so the augmentation of
multiple metapaths provides an effective way to capture rich contexts and
semantic relations between nodes. This greatly boosts the ability of
metapath-based embedding techniques in handling very sparse HINs. We propose a
new embedding learning algorithm, namely MetaGraph2Vec, which uses metagraph to
guide the generation of random walks and to learn latent embeddings of
multi-typed HIN nodes. Experimental results show that MetaGraph2Vec is able to
outperform the state-of-the-art baselines in various heterogeneous network
mining tasks such as node classification, node clustering, and similarity
search.


SINE: Scalable Incomplete Network Embedding

  Attributed network embedding aims to learn low-dimensional vector
representations for nodes in a network, where each node contains rich
attributes/features describing node content. Because network topology structure
and node attributes often exhibit high correlation, incorporating node
attribute proximity into network embedding is beneficial for learning good
vector representations. In reality, large-scale networks often have
incomplete/missing node content or linkages, yet existing attributed network
embedding algorithms all operate under the assumption that networks are
complete. Thus, their performance is vulnerable to missing data and suffers
from poor scalability.
  In this paper, we propose a Scalable Incomplete Network Embedding (SINE)
algorithm for learning node representations from incomplete graphs. SINE
formulates a probabilistic learning framework that separately models pairs of
node-context and node-attribute relationships. Different from existing
attributed network embedding algorithms, SINE provides greater flexibility to
make the best of useful information and mitigate negative effects of missing
information on representation learning. A stochastic gradient descent based
online algorithm is derived to learn node representations, allowing SINE to
scale up to large-scale networks with high learning efficiency. We evaluate the
effectiveness and efficiency of SINE through extensive experiments on
real-world networks. Experimental results confirm that SINE outperforms
state-of-the-art baselines in various tasks, including node classification,
node clustering, and link prediction, under settings with missing links and
node attributes. SINE is also shown to be scalable and efficient on large-scale
networks with millions of nodes/edges and high-dimensional node features. The
source code of this paper is available at https://github.com/daokunzhang/SINE.


Measuring Road Network Topology Vulnerability by Ricci Curvature

  Describing the basic properties of road network systems, such as their
robustness, vulnerability, and reliability, has been a very important research
topic in the field of urban transportation. Current research mainly uses
several statistical indicators of complex networks to analyze the road network
systems. However, these methods are essentially node-based. These node-based
methods are more concerned with the number of connections between nodes, and
lack of consideration for interactions. So, this leads to the well-known node
paradox problem, and their ability of characterizing the local and intrinsic
properties of a network is weak. From the perspective of network intrinsic
geometry, this paper proposes a method for measuring road network vulnerability
using a discrete Ricci curvature, which can identify the key sections of a road
network and indicate its fragile elements. The results show that our method
performs better than complex network statistics on measuring the vulnerability
of a road network. Additionally, it can characterize the evolution of the road
network vulnerability among different periods of time in the same city through
our method. Finally, we compare our method with the previous method of
centrality and show the different between them. This article provides a new
perspective on a geometry to analyze the vulnerability of a road network and
describes the inherent nature of the vulnerability of a road system from a new
perspective. It also contributes to enriching the analytical methods of complex
road networks.


Attributed Network Embedding via Subspace Discovery

  Network embedding aims to learn a latent, low-dimensional vector
representations of network nodes, effective in supporting various network
analytic tasks. While prior arts on network embedding focus primarily on
preserving network topology structure to learn node representations, recently
proposed attributed network embedding algorithms attempt to integrate rich node
content information with network topological structure for enhancing the
quality of network embedding. In reality, networks often have sparse content,
incomplete node attributes, as well as the discrepancy between node attribute
feature space and network structure space, which severely deteriorates the
performance of existing methods. In this paper, we propose a unified framework
for attributed network embedding-attri2vec-that learns node embeddings by
discovering a latent node attribute subspace via a network structure guided
transformation performed on the original attribute space. The resultant latent
subspace can respect network structure in a more consistent way towards
learning high-quality node representations. We formulate an optimization
problem which is solved by an efficient stochastic gradient descent algorithm,
with linear time complexity to the number of nodes. We investigate a series of
linear and non-linear transformations performed on node attributes and
empirically validate their effectiveness on various types of networks. Another
advantage of attri2vec is its ability to solve out-of-sample problems, where
embeddings of new coming nodes can be inferred from their node attributes
through the learned mapping function. Experiments on various types of networks
confirm that attri2vec is superior to state-of-the-art baselines for node
classification, node clustering, as well as out-of-sample link prediction
tasks. The source code of this paper is available at
https://github.com/daokunzhang/attri2vec.


