Suppression of leakage for a charge quadrupole qubit in triangular
  geometry

  We present a simple yet effective strategy to suppress the leakage in the
charge quadrupole qubit system by having the dots in a triangle as opposed to
the linear geometry originally conceived. We find that the tunnel coupling
between the two outmost dots are amplified in triangular triple dots, which
consequently reduces leakage by separating the leaked state and qubit states.
We have found that the leakage can be suppressed by as much as five orders of
magnitude when the dots form an equilateral triangle, with further improvement
of control fidelities possible if composite pulses are applied.


Decentralizing MVCC by Leveraging Visibility

  Multiversion Concurrency Control (MVCC) is a widely adopted concurrency
control mechanism in database systems, which usually utilizes timestamps to
resolve conflicts between transactions. However, centralized allocation of
timestamps is a potential bottleneck for parallel transaction management. This
bottleneck is becoming increasingly visible with the rapidly growing degree of
parallelism of today's computing platforms. This paper introduces Visibility
based Concurrency Control (ViCC), a series of CC mechanisms that allow
transactions to determine their timestamps autonomously, without relying on
centralized coordination. As such, ViCC can scale well, rendering it suitable
for various multicore and MPP platforms. Extensive experiments are conducted to
demonstrate its advantage over existing approaches.


Nematicons in liquid crystals with negative dielectric anisotropy

  We report a theoretical and experimental work on the nematicon in the planar
cell containing the nematic liquid crystal with negative dielectric anisotropy,
aligned homeotropically in the presence of an externally applied voltage. The
formation of the soliton is resulted from the balance between the linear
difrraction and the nonlocal nonlinearity due to molecular reorientation.


A Moser type inequality for Bessel Laplace equations and applications

  In this paper, we study Bessel operators and Bessel Laplace equations studied
by Weinstein, Huber, and related the harmonic function theory introduced by
Muckenhoupt--Stein. We establish the Moser type inequality for these harmonic
functions, which is missing in this setting before. We then apply it to give a
direct proof for the equivalence of characterizations of the Hardy spaces
associated to Bessel operator via non-tangential maximal function and radial
maximal function defined in terms of the Poisson semigroup.


Polarization sensitive laser intensity inside femtosecond filament in
  air

  Polarization dependence on clamping intensity inside femtosecond filament was
experimentally measured in air. By tuning the laser pulse ellipse from linear
polarization to circular polarization, the measured clamping intensity inside
laser filament is gradually increased up to 1.7 times. The experimental results
are in good agreement with the simulation results by solving the extended
nonlinear Schrodinger equation (NLSE). The polarization sensitive clamping
intensity inside filaments offers an important factor towards fully
understanding the polarization related phenomenon observed so far.


JS-MA: A Jensen-Shannon Divergence Based Method for Mapping Genome-wide
  Associations on Multiple Diseases

  Taking advantages of high-throughput genotyping technology of single
nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), large genome-wide association studies (GWASs)
have been considered as the promise to unravel the complex relationships
between genotypes and phenotypes, in particularly common diseases. However,
current multi-locus-based methods are insufficient, in terms of computational
cost and discrimination power, to detect statistically significant interactions
and they are lacking in the ability of finding diverse genetic effects on
multifarious diseases. Especially, multiple statistic tests for high-order
epistasis ($ \geq $ 2 SNPs) will raise huge analytical challenges because the
computational cost increases exponentially as the growth of the cardinality of
SNPs in an epistatic module. In this paper, we develop a simple, fast and
powerful method, named JS-MA, using the Jensen-Shannon divergence and a
high-dimensional $ k $-mean clustering algorithm for mapping the genome-wide
multi-locus epistatic interactions on multiple diseases. Compared with some
state-of-the-art association mapping tools, our method is demonstrated to be
more powerful and efficient from the experimental results on the systematical
simulations. We also applied JS-MA to the GWAS datasets from WTCCC for two
common diseases, i.e. Rheumatoid Arthritis and Type 1 Diabetes. JS-MA not only
confirms some recently reported biologically meaningful associations but also
identifies some novel findings. Therefore, we believe that our method is
suitable and efficient for the full-scale analysis of multi-disease-related
interactions in the large GWASs.


Sunspots rotation and magnetic transients associated with flares in NOAA
  AR 11429

  We analyze sunspots rotation and magnetic transients in NOAA AR 11429 during
two X-class (X5.4 and X1.3) flares using the data from the Helioseismic and
Magnetic Imager on board the \emph{Solar Dynamics Observatory}. A large leading
sunspot with positive magnetic polarity rotated counterclockwise. As expected,
the rotation was significantly affected by the two flares. The magnetic
transients induced by the flares were clearly evident in the sunspots with
negative polarity. They were moving across the sunspots with speed of order
$3-7\ \rm km \ s^{-1}$. Furthermore, the trend of magnetic flux evolution of
these sunspots exhibited changes associated with the flares. These results may
shed light on the understanding of the evolution of sunspots.


Multiple structure and symmetry types in narrow temperature and magnetic
  field ranges in two-dimensional Cr2Ge2Te6 crystal

  Multiple structure and symmetry types and their transformations are
discovered in quasi-two-dimensional (quasi-2D) Cr2Ge2Te6 crystal in
surprisingly very narrow temperature range of 2 K and magnetic field range of
0.07 T using a homebuilt magnetic force microscope (MFM). A series of basic
domain patterns are extracted from the MFM images. Some of them seem unique to
2-D materials as they are not observed in 3-D materials, such as self-fitting
disks, and fine ladder structure within Y-connected walls. Based on these
findings, a phase map is drawn for the magnetic phase structures. The symmetry
of the patterns are discussed. The results are not only important in developing
new theories but also highly desirable in applications.


Self-learning Mutual Selection Model for Weighted Networks

  In this paper, we propose a self-learning mutual selection model to
characterize weighted evolving networks. By introducing the self-learning
probability $p$ and the general mutual selection mechanism, which is controlled
by the parameter $m$, the model can reproduce scale-free distributions of
degree, weight and strength, as found in many real systems. The simulation
results are consistent with the theoretical predictions approximately.
Interestingly, we obtain the nontrivial clustering coefficient $C$ and tunable
degree assortativity $r$, depending on the parameters $m$ and $p$. The model
can unify the characterization of both assortative and disassortative weighted
networks. Also, we find that self-learning may contribute to the assortative
mixing of social networks.


Nonlocality-controlled interaction of spatial solitons in nematic liquid
  crystals

  We demonstrate experimentally that the interactions between a pair of
nonlocal spatial optical solitons in a nematic liquid crystal (NLC) can be
controlled by the degree of nonlocality. For a given beam width, the degree of
nonlocality can be modulated by varying the pretilt angle of NLC molecules via
the change of the bias. When the pretilt angle is smaller than pi/4, the
nonlocality is strong enough to guarantee the independence of the interactions
on the phase difference of the solitons. As the pretilt angle increases, the
degree of nonlocality decreases. When the degree is below its critical value,
the two solitons behavior in the way like their local counterpart: the two
in-phase solitons attract and the two out-of-phase solitons repulse.


Weighted Network of Chinese Nature Science Basic Research

  Using the requisition papers of Chinese Nature Science Basic Research in
management and information department, we construct the weighted network of
research areas({\bf WRAN}) represented by the subject codes. In WRAN, two
research areas are considered connected if they have been filled in at least
one requisition paper. The edge weight is defined as the number of requisition
papers which have filled in the same pairs of codes. The node strength is
defined as the number of requisition papers which have filled in this code,
including the papers which have filled in it only. Here we study a variety of
nonlocal statistics for these networks, such as typical distances between
research areas through the network, and measures of centrality such as
betweenness. These statistics characteristics can illuminate the global
development trend of Chinese scientific study, it is also helpful to adjust the
code system to reflect the real status more accurately. Finally, we present a
plausible model for the formation and structure of networks with the observed
properties.


Observation of Optical Solitons and Abnormal Modulation Instability in
  Liquid Crystals with Negative Dielectric Anisotropy

  We investigate theoretically and experimentally the optical beam propagation
in the nematic liquid crystal with negative dielectric anisotropy, which is
aligned homeotropically in a $80\mu m$-thickness planar cell in the presence of
an externally voltage. It is predicted that the nonlocal nonlinearity of liquid
crystal undergo an oscillatory response function with a negative nonlinear
refractive index coefficient. We found that the oscillatory nonlocal
nonlinearity can support stable bright solitons, which are observed in
experiment. We also found that abnormal modulation instability occurs with
infinity gain coefficient at a fixed spatial frequency, which is no depend on
the beam intensity. We observed the modulation instability in the liquid
crystal at a very low intensity ($0.26W/cm^2$), and the maximum gain frequency
were found kept unchange when beam power changes over 2-3 orders of magnitude.


Pentavalent symmetric graphs of order four times an odd square-free
  integer

  A graph is said to be symmetric if its automorphism group is transitive on
its arcs. Guo et al. (Electronic J. Combin. 18, \#P233, 2011) and Pan et al.
(Electronic J. Combin. 20, \#P36, 2013) determined all pentavalent symmetric
graphs of order $4pq$. In this paper, we shall generalize this result by
determining all connected pentavalent symmetric graphs of order four times an
odd square-free integer. It is shown in this paper that, for each of such
graphs $\it\Gamma$, either the full automorphism group ${\sf Aut}\it\Gamma$ is
isomorphic to ${\sf PSL}(2,p)$, ${\sf PGL}(2,p)$, ${\sf
PSL}(2,p){\times}\mathbb{Z}_2$ or ${\sf PGL}(2,p){\times}\mathbb{Z}_2$, or
$\it\Gamma$ is isomorphic to one of 8 graphs.


A Learning-based Framework for Hybrid Depth-from-Defocus and Stereo
  Matching

  Depth from defocus (DfD) and stereo matching are two most studied passive
depth sensing schemes. The techniques are essentially complementary: DfD can
robustly handle repetitive textures that are problematic for stereo matching
whereas stereo matching is insensitive to defocus blurs and can handle large
depth range. In this paper, we present a unified learning-based technique to
conduct hybrid DfD and stereo matching. Our input is image triplets: a stereo
pair and a defocused image of one of the stereo views. We first apply
depth-guided light field rendering to construct a comprehensive training
dataset for such hybrid sensing setups. Next, we adopt the hourglass network
architecture to separately conduct depth inference from DfD and stereo.
Finally, we exploit different connection methods between the two separate
networks for integrating them into a unified solution to produce high fidelity
3D disparity maps. Comprehensive experiments on real and synthetic data show
that our new learning-based hybrid 3D sensing technique can significantly
improve accuracy and robustness in 3D reconstruction.


On the validity of microscopic calculations of double-quantum-dot spin
  qubits based on Fock-Darwin states

  We consider two typical approximations that are used in the microscopic
calculations of double-quantum dot spin qubits, namely, the Heitler-London (HL)
and the Hund-Mulliken (HM) approximations, which use linear combinations of
Fock-Darwin states to approximate the two-electron states under the double-well
confinement potential. We compared these results to a case in which the
solution to a one-dimensional Schr\"odinger equation was exactly known and
found that typical microscopic calculations based on Fock-Darwin states
substantially underestimate the value of the exchange interaction, which is the
key parameter that controls the quantum dot spin qubits. This underestimation
originates from the lack of tunneling of Fock-Darwin states, which is accurate
only in the case with a single potential well. Our results suggest that the
accuracies of the current two-dimensional molecular-orbit-theoretical
calculations based on Fock-Darwin states should be revisited since
underestimation could only deteriorate in dimensions that are higher than one.


Tunable charge qubit based on barrier-controlled triple quantum dots

  We present a theoretical proposal of a tunable charge qubit, hosted in triple
quantum dots. The manipulation is solely performed by changing the heights of
the two potential barriers between the three dots, while the energy of all
three dots are fixed. We have found that when the relative height of the two
barriers are changed, the direction of the axis of rotation in performing
single-qubit gates can be varied. On the other hand, the corresponding rotation
speed can be tuned by raising or lowering the two barriers at the same time.
Our proposal therefore allows for tunability of both the rotation axis and
rotating speed for a charge qubit via all-electrical control, which may
facilitate realization of quantum algorithms in these devices.


Deep Convolutional Neural Network for Automated Detection of Mind
  Wandering using EEG Signals

  Mind wandering (MW) is a ubiquitous phenomenon which reflects a shift in
attention from task-related to task-unrelated thoughts. There is a need for
intelligent interfaces that can reorient attention when MW is detected due to
its detrimental effects on performance and productivity. In this paper, we
propose a deep learning model for MW detection using Electroencephalogram (EEG)
signals. Specifically, we develop a channel-wise deep convolutional neural
network (CNN) model to classify the features of focusing state and MW extracted
from EEG signals. This is the first study that employs CNN to automatically
detect MW using only EEG data. The experimental results on the collected
dataset demonstrate promising performance with 91.78% accuracy, 92.84%
sensitivity, and 90.73% specificity.


A generalized theory of preferential linking

  There are diverse mechanisms driving the evolution of social networks. A key
open question dealing with understanding their evolution is: How various
preferential linking mechanisms produce networks with different features? In
this paper we first empirically study preferential linking phenomena in an
evolving online social network, find and validate the linear preference. We
propose an analyzable model which captures the real growth process of the
network and reveals the underlying mechanism dominating its evolution.
Furthermore based on preferential linking we propose a generalized model
reproducing the evolution of online social networks, present unified analytical
results describing network characteristics for 27 preference scenarios, and
explore the relation between preferential linking mechanism and network
features. We find that within the framework of preferential linking analytical
degree distributions can only be the combinations of finite kinds of functions
which are related to rational, logarithmic and inverse tangent functions, and
extremely complex network structure will emerge even for very simple sublinear
preferential linking. This work not only provides a verifiable origin for the
emergence of various network characteristics in social networks, but bridges
the micro individuals' behaviors and the global organization of social
networks.


Unusual evolution of B_{c2} and T_c with inclined fields in restacked
  TaS_2 nanosheets

  Recently we reported an enhanced superconductivity in restacked monolayer
TaS_2 nanosheets compared with the bulk TaS_2, pointing to the exotic physical
properties of low dimensional systems. Here we tune the superconducting
properties of this system with magnetic field along different directions, where
a strong Pauli paramagnetic spin-splitting effect is found in this system.
Importantly, an unusual enhancement as high as 3.8 times of the upper critical
field B_{c2}, as compered with the Ginzburg-Landau (GL) model and Tinkham
model, is observed under the inclined external magnetic field. Moreover, with
the out-of-plane field fixed, we find that the superconducting transition
temperature T_c can be enhanced by increasing the in-plane field and forms a
dome-shaped phase diagram. An extended GL model considering the special
microstructure with wrinkles was proposed to describe the results. The
restacked crystal structure without inversion center along with the strong
spin-orbit coupling may also play an important role for our observations.


Ground-to-satellite quantum teleportation

  An arbitrary unknown quantum state cannot be precisely measured or perfectly
replicated. However, quantum teleportation allows faithful transfer of unknown
quantum states from one object to another over long distance, without physical
travelling of the object itself. Long-distance teleportation has been
recognized as a fundamental element in protocols such as large-scale quantum
networks and distributed quantum computation. However, the previous
teleportation experiments between distant locations were limited to a distance
on the order of 100 kilometers, due to photon loss in optical fibres or
terrestrial free-space channels. An outstanding open challenge for a
global-scale "quantum internet" is to significantly extend the range for
teleportation. A promising solution to this problem is exploiting satellite
platform and space-based link, which can conveniently connect two remote points
on the Earth with greatly reduced channel loss because most of the photons'
propagation path is in empty space. Here, we report the first quantum
teleportation of independent single-photon qubits from a ground observatory to
a low Earth orbit satellite - through an up-link channel - with a distance up
to 1400 km. To optimize the link efficiency and overcome the atmospheric
turbulence in the up-link, a series of techniques are developed, including a
compact ultra-bright source of multi-photon entanglement, narrow beam
divergence, high-bandwidth and high-accuracy acquiring, pointing, and tracking
(APT). We demonstrate successful quantum teleportation for six input states in
mutually unbiased bases with an average fidelity of 0.80+/-0.01, well above the
classical limit. This work establishes the first ground-to-satellite up-link
for faithful and ultra-long-distance quantum teleportation, an essential step
toward global-scale quantum internet.


