Higher weight distribution of linearized Reed-Solomon codes

  Linearized Reed-Solomon codes are defined. Higher weight distribution of
those codes are determined.


A class of cyclic codes whose dual have five zeros

  In this paper, a family of cyclic codes over $\mathbb{F}_{p}$ whose duals
have five zeros is presented, where $p$ is an odd prime. Furthermore, the
weight distributions of these cyclic codes are determined.


A Class of Six-weight Cyclic Codes and Their Weight Distribution

  In this paper, a family of six-weight cyclic codes over GF(p) whose duals
have two zeros is presented, where p is an odd prime. And the weight
distribution of these cyclic codes is determined.


A Class of Five-weight Cyclic Codes and Their Weight Distribution

  In this paper, a family of five-weight reducible cyclic codes is presented.
Furthermore, the weight distribution of these cyclic codes is determined, which
follows from the determination of value distributions of certain exponential
sums.


A Class of Reducible Cyclic Codes and Their Weight Distribution

  In this paper, a family of reducible cyclic codes over GF(p) whose duals have
four zeros is presented, where p is an odd prime. Furthermore, the weight
distribution of these cyclic codes is determined.


The extraction of nuclear sea quark distribution and energy loss effect
  in Drell-Yan experiment

  The next-to-leading order and leading order analysis are performed on the
differential cross section ratio from Drell-Yan process. It is found that the
effect of next-to-leading order corrections can be negligible on the
differential cross section ratios as a function of the quark momentum fraction
in the beam proton and the target nuclei for the current Fermilab and future
lower beam proton energy. The nuclear Drell-Yan reaction is an ideal tool to
study the energy loss of the fast quark moving through cold nuclei. In the
leading order analysis, the theoretical results with quark energy loss are in
good agreement with the Fermilab E866 experimental data on the Drell-Yan
differential cross section ratios as a function of the momentum fraction of the
target parton. It is shown that the quark energy loss effect has significant
impact on the Drell-Yan differential cross section ratios. The nuclear
Drell-Yan experiment at current Fermilab and future lower energy proton beam
can not provide us with more information on the nuclear sea quark distribution.


Incidence Matrices of Finite Quadratic Spaces

  In this paper, we first prove the 2-rank of full incidence matrix of PG(n,q)
with $q$ an odd prime power. Then by the quadratic form defined on PG(n,q), the
points of it are classified as isotropic and anisotropic points. We divide the
full incidence matrix into four sub-matrices. Then by using the software
package Magma, we give a general conjecture for the 2-rank of sub-matrices of
the full incidence matrix in PG(n,q) and prove it in the case of n=1, 2.


Incidence Matrices of Polarized Projective Spaces

  In this paper, we first define a non-degenerate symmetric bilinear form on
Fq^4. Then we get an incidence matrix G of Fq^4 by the bilinear form. By its
corresponding quadratic form Q, the lines of Fq^4 are classified as isotropic
and anisotropic lines. Under this classification, we can get two sub-matrices
of G and prove their 2-rank. Key words and phrases: finite field, quadratic
form, incidence matrix.


Cyclic Codes from Two-Prime Generalized Cyclotomic Sequences of Order 6

  Cyclic codes have wide applications in data storage systems and communication
systems. Employing two-prime Whiteman generalized cyclotomic sequences of order
6, we construct several classes of cyclic codes over the finite field GF}(q)
and give their generator polynomials. And we also calculate the minimum
distance of some cyclic codes and give lower bounds of the minimum distance for
some other cyclic codes.


Generative Steganography by Sampling

  In this paper, a new data-driven information hiding scheme called generative
steganography by sampling (GSS) is proposed. The stego is directly sampled by a
powerful generator without an explicit cover. Secret key shared by both parties
is used for message embedding and extraction, respectively. Jensen-Shannon
Divergence is introduced as new criteria for evaluation of the security of the
generative steganography. Based on these principles, a simple practical
generative steganography method is proposed using semantic image inpainting.
Experiments demonstrate the potential of the framework through qualitative and
quantitative evaluation of the generated stego images.


Bose-Fermi competition in holographic metals

  We study the holographic dual of a finite density system with both bosonic
and fermionic degrees of freedom. There is no evidence for a universal
bose-dominated ground state. Instead, depending on the relative conformal
weights the preferred groundstate is either pure AdS-Reissner-Nordstrom, a
holographic superconductor, an electron star, or a novel mixed state that is
best characterized as a hairy electron star.


Vortex gyration mediated by spin waves driven by an out-of-plane
  oscillating magnetic field

  In this letter we address the vortex core dynamics involved in gyration
excitation and damping change by out-of-plane oscillating magnetic fields. When
the vortex core is at rest under the effect of in-plane bias magnetic fields,
the spin waves excited by the perpendicular magnetic field can induce obvious
vortex gyration. When simultaneously excite spin waves and vortex gyrotropic
motion, the gyration damping changes. Analysis of the system energy allows us
to explain the origin of the spin-wave-mediated vortex gyration.


The holographic Weyl semi-metal

  We present a holographic model of a Weyl semi-metal. We show that upon
varying a mass parameter the model undergoes a quantum phase transition from a
topologically non-trivial state to a trivial one. The order parameter for this
phase transition is the anomalous Hall effect (AHE). We give an interpretation
of the results in terms of a holographic RG flow and compare to a weakly
coupled field theoretical model. Since there are no quasiparticle excitations
in the strongly coupled holographic model the topological phase can not be
bound to notions of topology in momentum space.


Quantile tests in frequency domain for sinusoid models

  For second order stationary processes, the spectral distribution function is
uniquely deter- mined by the autocovariance functions of the processes. We
define the quantiles of the spectral distribution function and propose two
estimators for the quantiles. Asymptotic properties of both estimators are
elucidated and the difference from the quantile estimators in time do- main is
also indicated. We construct a testing procedure of quantile tests from the
asymptotic distribution of the estimators and strong statistical power is shown
in our numerical studies.


Challenges Towards Deploying Data Intensive Scientific Applications on
  Extreme Heterogeneity Supercomputers

  Shrinking transistors, which powered the advancement of computing in the past
half century, has stalled due to power wall; now extreme heterogeneity is
promised to be the next driving force to feed the needs of ever-increasingly
diverse scientific domains. To unlock the potentials of such supercomputers, we
identify eight potential challenges in three categories: First, one needs fast
data movement since extreme heterogeneity will inevitably complicate the
communication circuits -- thus hampering the data movement. Second, we need to
intelligently schedule suitable hardware for corresponding applications/stages.
Third, we have to lower the programming complexity in order to encourage the
adoption of heterogeneous computing.


Weyl semimetal/insulator transition from holography

  We study a holographic model which exhibits a quantum phase transition from
the strongly interacting Weyl semimetal phase to an insulating phase. In the
holographic insulating phase there is a hard gap in the real part of frequency
dependent diagonal conductivities. However, the anomalous Hall conductivity is
nonzero at zero frequency, indicting that it is a Chern insulator. This
holographic quantum phase transition is always of first order, signified by a
discontinuous anomalous Hall conductivity at the phase transition, in contrast
to the very continuous holographic Weyl semimetal/trivial semimetal phase
transition. Our work reveals the novel phase structure of strongly interacting
Weyl semimetal.


The Uncertainty Relationship In Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)

  The uncertainty relationship in MRI is shown. The result of uncertainty
relationship is compared with other factors influencing the resolution of MRI.
Our estimations show that the uncertainty relationship is of no significance in
practice.


Good Self-dual Generalized Quasi-Cyclic Codes Exist

  We show that there are good long binary generalized quasi-cyclic self-dual
(either Type I or Type II) codes.


Linearized Reed-Solomon codes and linearized Wenger graphs

  A codeword is associated to a linearized polynomial. The weight distribution
of the codewords is determined as the linearized polynomial varies in a family
of fixed degree. There is a corresponding result on Wenger graphs from
linearized polynomials.


Fraunhofer diffraction at the two-dimensional quadratically distorted
  (QD) Grating

  A two-dimensional (2D) mathematical model of quadratically distorted (QD)
grating is established with the principles of Fraunhofer diffraction and
Fourier optics. Discrete sampling and bisection algorithm are applied for
finding numerical solution of the diffraction pattern of QD grating. This 2D
mathematical model allows the precise design of QD grating and improves the
optical performance of simultaneous multiplane imaging system.


Glauber Gluons in Soft Collinear Effective Theory and Factorization of
  Drell-Yan Processes

  Glauber gluons in Drell-Yan processes are soft gluons with the transverse
momenta much larger than their momentum components along the directions of
initial hadrons. Their existence has been a serious challenge in proving the
factorization of Drell-Yan processes. The recently proposed soft collinear
effect theory of QCD can provide a transparent way to show factorizations for a
class of processes, but it does not address the effect of glauber gluons. In
this letter we first confirm the existence of glauber gluons through an
example. We then add glauber gluons into the effective theory and study their
interaction with other particles. In the framework of the effective theory with
glauber gluons we are able to show that the effects of glauber gluons in
Drell-Yan processes are canceled and the factorization holds in the existence
of glauber gluons. Our work completes the proof or argument of factorization of
Drell-Yan process in the framework of the soft collinear effective theory.


The uncertainties due to quark energy loss on determining nuclear sea
  quark distribution from nuclear Drell-Yan data

  By means of two different parametrizations of quark energy loss and the
nuclear parton distributions determined only with lepton-nuclear deep inelastic
scattering experimental data, a leading order phenomenological analysis is
performed on the nuclear Drell-Yan differential cross section ratios as a
function of the quark momentum fraction in the beam proton and target nuclei
for E772 experimental data. It is shown that there is the quark energy loss
effect in nuclear Drell-Yan process apart from the nuclear effects on the
parton distribution as in deep inelastic scattering. The uncertainties due to
quark energy loss effect is quantified on determining nuclear sea quark
distribution by using nuclear Drell-Yan data. It is found that the quark energy
loss effect on nuclear Drell-Yan cross section ratios make greater with the
increase of quark momentum fraction in the target nuclei. The uncertainties
from quark energy loss become bigger as the nucleus A come to be heavier. The
Drell-Yan data on proton incident middle and heavy nuclei versus deuterium
would result in an overestimate for nuclear modifications on sea quark
distribution functions with neglecting the quark energy loss. Our results are
hoped to provide good directional information on the magnitude and form of
nuclear modifications on sea quark distribution functions by means of the
nuclear Drell-Yan experimental data.


Gauss-Bonnet holographic superconductors in Born-Infeld electrodynamics
  with backreactions

  We develop a general holographic superconductor away from the probe limit by
considering the corrections both in the gravity and in the gauge matter fields.
We find the consistent effects of the high curvature correction in the gravity,
the nonlinear correction in the gauge matter field and the backreaction on the
dynamics of bulk AdS background and boundary CFT. They all have the effect to
protect the stability of the bulk spacetime and hinder the formation of the
scalar hair condensation on the boundary.


Prospects of polarized fixed target Drell-Yan experiments

  It has been proposed that the Siverse transverse single spin asymmetry in
Drell-Yan production in transversely polarized p+p collisions would have an
opposite sign compared to what has been observed in the polarized
Semi-Inclusive Deep Inelastic Scattering (SIDIS) experiments. Experimental
confirmation or disproval of this prediction would provide a new fundamental
test of QCD and shed new light on our theoretical understanding of the
transverse spin physics phenomena. We discuss the prospects and physics
sensitivities of polarized fixed target Drell-Yan experiments that could
utilize the existing proton and other hadron beams at Fermilab, and polarized
proton beams at RHIC with a polarized solid proton and/or neutron target
option. We show that if realized, the new experiments would provide critical
measurements of not only the sign change (or not) of Sivers functions, but also
the information of quark and antiquark's Sivers distributions over a wide
kinematic range.


Bosonic Integer Quantum Hall States without Landau Levels on Square
  Lattice

  We study an interacting two-component hard-core bosons on square lattice for
which, in the presence of staggered magnetic flux, the ground state is a
bosonic integer quantum Hall (BIQH) state. Using a coupled-wire bosonization
approach, we analytically show this model exhibits a BIQH state at total charge
half filling associated with a symmetry-protected topological phase under
$U(1)$ charge conservation. These theoretical expectations are verified, using
the infinite density matrix renormalization group method, by providing
numerical evidences for: (i) a quantized Hall conductance $\sigma_{xy}=\pm2$,
and (ii) two counter-propagating gapless edge modes. Our model is a bosonic
cousin of the fermionic Haldane model and serves as an additional case of
analogy between bosonic and fermionic quantum Hall states.


The influence of quark energy loss on extracting nuclear sea quark
  distribution from nuclear Drell-Yan experimental data

  By means of two typical kinds of quark energy loss parametrization and the
nuclear parton distributions determined only with lepton-nuclear deep inelastic
scattering experimental data, a leading order analysis are performed on the
proton-induced Drell-Yan differential cross section ratios of tungsten versus
deuterium as a function of the quark momentum fraction in the beam proton and
target nuclei. It is found that the theoretical results with quark energy loss
are in good agreement with the experimental data. The quark energy loss effect
produce approximately 3% to 11% suppression on the Drell-Yan differential cross
section ratios $R_{W/D}$ in the range $0.05\leq x_2\leq0.3$. The application of
nuclear Drell-Yan data with heavy targets is remarkably subject to difficulty
in the constraints of the nuclear sea-quark distribution.


Next-to-leading Order Parton Model Calculations in the Massless
  Schwinger Model

  We carry out next-to-leading order (NLO) parton model calculations for the
standard hard ``QCD'' processes in the massless Schwinger model. The asymptotic
expansion of the exact result for the deep inelastic cross section is used to
infer the NLO distribution function. These distribution functions are then used
to calculate the NLO Drell-Yan parton model cross section and it is found to
agree with the corresponding term in the expansion of the exact result for the
Drell-Yan cross section. Finally, by using the bosonization formula and the
exact solutions we study the interference between different partonic processes.


1/m_Q Corrections to the Heavy-to-Light-Vector Transitions in the HQET

  Within the HQET, the heavy to light vector meson transitions are
systematically analyzed to the order of 1/m_Q. Besides the four universal
functions at the leading order, there are twenty-two independent universal form
factors at the order of 1/m_Q. Both the semileptonic decay B->\rho which is
relevant to the |V_{ub}| extraction, and the penguin induced decay B -> K^*
which is important to new physics discovering, depend on these form factors.
Phenomenological implications are discussed.


Density of eigenvalues and its perturbation invariance in unitary
  ensembles of random matrices

  We generally study the density of eigenvalues in unitary ensembles of random
matrices from the recurrence coefficients with regularly varying conditions for
the orthogonal polynomials. First we calculate directly the moments of the
density. Then, by studying some deformation of the moments, we get a family of
differential equations of first order which the densities satisfy (see Theorem
1.2), and give the densities by solving them. Further, we prove that the
density is invariant after the polynomial perturbation of the weight function
(see Theorem 1.5).


Evolution of shear-induced melting in dusty plasma

  The spatiotemporal development of melting is studied experimentally in a 2D
dusty plasma suspension. Starting with an ordered lattice, and then suddenly
applying localized shear, a pair of counter-propagating flow regions develop. A
transition between two melting stages is observed before a steady state is
reached. Melting spreads with a front that propagates at the transverse sound
speed. Unexpectedly, coherent longitudinal waves are excited in the flow
region.


Viscoelasticity of 2D liquids quantified in a dusty plasma experiment

  The viscoelasticity of two-dimensional liquids is quantified in an experiment
using a dusty plasma. An experimental method is demonstrated for measuring the
wavenumber-dependent viscosity, $\eta(k)$, which is a quantitative indicator of
viscoelasticity. Using an expression generalized here to include friction,
$\eta(k)$ is computed from the transverse current autocorrelation function
(TCAF), which is found by tracking random particle motion. The TCAF exhibits an
oscillation that is a signature of elastic contributions to viscoelasticity.
Simulations of a Yukawa liquid are consistent with the experiment.


Rapid heating and cooling in two-dimensional Yukawa systems

  Simulations are reported to investigate solid superheating and liquid
supercooling of two-dimensional (2D) systems with a Yukawa interparticle
potential. Motivated by experiments where a dusty plasma is heated and then
cooled suddenly, we track particle motion using a simulation with Langevin
dynamics. Hysteresis is observed when the temperature is varied rapidly in a
heating and cooling cycle. As in the experiment, transient solid superheating,
but not liquid supercooling, is observed. Solid superheating, which is
characterized by solid structure above the melting point, is found to be
promoted by a higher rate of temperature increase.


Observation of temperature peaks due to strong viscous heating in a
  dusty plasma flow

  Profound temperature peaks are observed in regions of high velocity shear in
a 2D dusty plasma experiment with laser-driven flow. These are attributed to
viscous heating, which occurs due to collisional scattering in a shear flow.
Using measurements of viscosity, thermal conductivity, and spatial profiles of
flow velocity and temperature, we determine three dimensionless numbers:
Brinkman Br = 0.5, Prandtl Pr = 0.09, and Eckert Ec = 5.7. The large value of
Br indicates significant viscous heating that is consistent with the observed
temperature peaks.


The Bouleau-Yor identity for a bi-fractional Brownian motion

  Let $B$ be a bi-fractional Brownian motion with indices $H\in (0,1),K\in
(0,1]$, $2HK=1$ and let ${\mathscr L}(x,t)$ be its local time process. We
construct a Banach space ${\mathscr H}$ of measurable functions such that the
quadratic covariation $[f(B),B]$ and the integral $\int_{\mathbb
R}f(x){\mathscr L}(dx,t)$ exist provided $f\in {\mathscr H}$. Moreover, the
Bouleau-Yor identity $$ [f(B),B]_t=-2^{1-K}\int_{\mathbb R}f(x){\mathscr
L}(dx,t),\qquad t\geq 0, $$ holds for all $f\in {\mathscr H}$.


Solid superheating observed in two-dimensional strongly-coupled dusty
  plasma

  It is demonstrated experimentally that strongly-coupled plasma exhibits solid
superheating. A 2D suspension of microspheres in dusty plasma, initially
self-organized in a solid lattice, was heated and then cooled rapidly by
turning laser heating on and off. Particles were tracked using video
microscopy, allowing atomistic-scale observation during melting and
solidification. During rapid heating, the suspension remained in a solid
structure at temperatures above the melting point, demonstrating solid
superheating. Hysteresis diagrams did not indicate liquid supercooling in this
2D system.


Longitudinal viscosity of 2D Yukawa liquids

  The longitudinal viscosity $\eta_l$ is obtained for a two-dimensional (2D)
liquid using a Green-Kubo method with a molecular dynamics simulation. The
interparticle potential used has the Debye-H\"{u}ckel or Yukawa form, which
models a 2D dusty plasma. The longitudinal $\eta_l$ and shear $\eta_s$
viscosities are found to have values that match very closely, with only
negligible differences for the entire range of temperatures that is considered.
The bulk viscosity $\eta_b$ is determined to be either negligibly small or not
a meaningful transport coefficient, for a 2D Yukawa liquid.


A type of multiple integral with loggamma function

  In this paper, we study the multiple integral $ \displaystyle I= \int_0^1
\int_0^1 \dots \int_0^1 f(x_1+x_2 + \dots +x_n) \, dx_1 \, dx_2 \, \dots \,
dx_n$. A general formula of $I$ is presented. As an application, the integral
$I$ with $f(x)= \log \Gamma(x)$ is evaluated. We show that the values of $I$
share a common formula for all $n \in \mathbb{N}$. The subsidiary computational
challenges are substantial and interesting in their own right.


All-optical routing of single photons with multiple input and output
  ports by interferences

  We propose a waveguide-cavity coupled system to achieve the routing of
photons by the phases of other photons. Our router has four input ports and
four output ports. The transport of the coherent-state photons injected through
any input port can be controlled by the phases of the coherent-state photons
injected through other input ports. This control can be achieved when the mean
numbers of the routed and control photons are small enough and require no
additional control fields. Therefore, the all-optical routing of photons can be
achieved at the single-photon level.


Extraordinary transmission caused by symmetry breaking

  The terahertz transmission properties of symmetrical and asymmetrical annular
apertures arrays (AAAs) are investigated both experimentally and numerically.
It is found that only odd order resonant modes are observed for the symmetrical
structures but both odd and even order resonances can be shown for the
asymmetrical structures. Breaking the symmetry of AAAs by gradually displacing
the H-shaped AAAs to U-shaped AAAs allows an intensity modulation depth of 99%
of the second order resonance. Simulation results verify the experimental
conclusions well. This result provides a tremendous opportunity for terahertz
wavelength tunable filtering, sensing, and near-field imaging.


Communication-Efficient Parallel Belief Propagation for Latent Dirichlet
  Allocation

  This paper presents a novel communication-efficient parallel belief
propagation (CE-PBP) algorithm for training latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA).
Based on the synchronous belief propagation (BP) algorithm, we first develop a
parallel belief propagation (PBP) algorithm on the parallel architecture.
Because the extensive communication delay often causes a low efficiency of
parallel topic modeling, we further use Zipf's law to reduce the total
communication cost in PBP. Extensive experiments on different data sets
demonstrate that CE-PBP achieves a higher topic modeling accuracy and reduces
more than 80% communication cost than the state-of-the-art parallel Gibbs
sampling (PGS) algorithm.


The effects of delta mesons on the baryonic direct Urca processes in
  neutron star matter

  In the framework of relativistic mean field theory, the relativistic neutrino
emissivity of the nucleonic and hyperonic direct Urca processes in the
degenerate baryon matter of neutron stars are studied. We investigate
particularly the influence of the isovector scalar interaction which is
considered by exchanging $\delta$ meson on the nucleonic and hyperonic direct
Urca processes. The results indicate that $\delta$ mesons lead to obvious
enhancement of the total neutrino emissivity, which must result in more rapid
cooling rate of neutron star matter.


Scalar field condensation behaviors around reflecting shells in Anti-de
  Sitter spacetimes

  We study scalar condensations around asymptotically Anti-de Sitter(AdS)
regular reflecting shells. We show that the charged scalar field can condense
around charged reflecting shells with both Dirichlet and Neumann boundary
conditions. In particular, the radii of the asymptotically AdS hairy shells are
discrete, which is similar to cases in asymptotically flat spacetimes. We also
provide upper bounds for the radii of the hairy Dirichlet reflecting shells and
above the bound, the scalar field cannot condense around the shell.


Perfect Optical Nonreciprocity in a Double-Cavity Optomechanical System

  Nonreciprocal devices are indispensable for building quantum networks and
ubiquitous in modern communication technology. Here, we use optomechanical
interaction and linearly-coupled interaction to realize optical nonreciprocal
transmission in a double-cavity optomechanical system. The scheme relies on the
interference between the two interactions. We derive the essential conditions
to realize perfect optical nonreciprocity in the system, and analyse the
properties of optical nonreciprocal transmission and the output fields from
mechanical mode. These results can be used to control optical transmission in
quantum information processing.


Electronic Structures of Graphene Layers on Metal Foil: Effect of Point
  Defects

  Here we report a facile method to generate a high density of point defects in
graphene on metal foil and show how the point defects affect the electronic
structures of graphene layers. Our scanning tunneling microscopy (STM)
measurements, complemented by first principle calculations, reveal that the
point defects result in both the intervalley and intravalley scattering of
graphene. The Fermi velocity is reduced in the vicinity area of the defect due
to the enhanced scattering. Additionally, our analysis further points out that
periodic point defects can tailor the electronic properties of graphene by
introducing a significant bandgap, which opens an avenue towards all-graphene
electronics.


The nature of attraction between like charged rods

  Comment on the paper of Ha and Liu (Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 79}, 1289 (1997))
regarding the nature of attraction between like charged rods. We demostrate
that their results do not produce the correct low temperature limit.


Compact Composition Operators on the Bloch Space in Bounded Symmetric
  Domains

  Let $\Omega$ be a bounded symmetric domain except the two exceptional domains
of ${\Bbb C}^N$ and $\phi$ a holomorphic self-map of $\Omega.$ This paper gives
a sufficient and necessary condition for the composition operator $C_{\phi}$
induced by $\phi$ to be compact on the Bloch space $\beta(\Omega)$.


Nonexistence of triples of nonisomorphic connected graphs with
  isomorphic connected $P_3$-graphs

  In the paper "Broersma and Hoede, {\it Path graphs}, J. Graph Theory {\bf 13}
(1989) 427-444", the authors proposed a problem whether there is a triple of
mutually nonisomorphic connected graphs which have an isomorphic connected
$P_3$-graph. For a long time, this problem remains unanswered. In this paper,
we give it a negative answer that there is no such triple, and thus completely
solve this problem.


Almost periodic solutions for stochastic differential equations with
  exponential dichotomy driven by Levy noise

  In this paper, we study almost periodic solutions for semilinear stochastic
differential equations driven by L\'{e}vy noise with exponential dichotomy
property. Under suitable conditions on the coefficients, we obtain the
existence and uniqueness of bounded solutions. Furthermore, this unique bounded
solution is almost periodic in distribution under slightly stronger conditions.
We also give two examples to illustrate our results.


ActiveCrowd: A Framework for Optimized Multi-Task Allocation in Mobile
  Crowdsensing Systems

  Worker selection is a key issue in Mobile Crowd Sensing (MCS). While previous
worker selection approaches mainly focus on selecting a proper subset of
workers for a single MCS task, multi-task-oriented worker selection is
essential and useful for the efficiency of large-scale MCS platforms. This
paper proposes ActiveCrowd, a worker selection framework for multi-task MCS
environments.


Trace codes over $\Z_4$ and Boolean function

  We construct trace codes over $\Z_4$ by using Boolean functions and skew
sets, respectively. Their Lee weight distribution is studied by using a Galois
ring version of the Walsh-Hadamard transform and exponential sums. We obtain a
new family of optimal two-weight codes over $\Z_4.$


