Enhancing Robustness of Deep Neural Networks Against Adversarial Malware
  Samples: Principles, Framework, and AICS'2019 Challenge

  Malware continues to be a major cyber threat, despite the tremendous effort
that has been made to combat them. The number of malware in the wild steadily
increases over time, meaning that we must resort to automated defense
techniques. This naturally calls for machine learning based malware detection.
However, machine learning is known to be vulnerable to adversarial evasion
attacks that manipulate a small number of features to make classifiers wrongly
recognize a malware sample as a benign one. The state-of-the-art is that there
are no effective countermeasures against these attacks. Inspired by the
AICS'2019 Challenge, we systematize a number of principles for enhancing the
robustness of neural networks against adversarial malware evasion attacks. Some
of these principles have been scattered in the literature, but others are
proposed in this paper for the first time. Under the guidance of these
principles, we propose a framework and an accompanying training algorithm,
which are then applied to the AICS'2019 challenge. Our experimental results
have been submitted to the challenge organizer for evaluation.


AiDroid: When Heterogeneous Information Network Marries Deep Neural
  Network for Real-time Android Malware Detection

  The explosive growth and increasing sophistication of Android malware call
for new defensive techniques that are capable of protecting mobile users
against novel threats. In this paper, we first extract the runtime Application
Programming Interface (API) call sequences from Android apps, and then analyze
higher-level semantic relations within the ecosystem to comprehensively
characterize the apps. To model different types of entities (i.e., app, API,
IMEI, signature, affiliation) and the rich semantic relations among them, we
then construct a structural heterogeneous information network (HIN) and present
meta-path based approach to depict the relatedness over apps. To efficiently
classify nodes (e.g., apps) in the constructed HIN, we propose the HinLearning
method to first obtain in-sample node embeddings and then learn representations
of out-of-sample nodes without rerunning/adjusting HIN embeddings at the first
attempt. Afterwards, we design a deep neural network (DNN) classifier taking
the learned HIN representations as inputs for Android malware detection. A
comprehensive experimental study on the large-scale real sample collections
from Tencent Security Lab is performed to compare various baselines. Promising
experimental results demonstrate that our developed system AiDroid which
integrates our proposed method outperforms others in real-time Android malware
detection. AiDroid has already been incorporated into Tencent Mobile Security
product that serves millions of users worldwide.


Heterogeneous Graph Attention Network

  Graph neural network, as a powerful graph representation technique based on
deep learning, has shown superior performance and attracted considerable
research interest. However, it has not been fully considered in graph neural
network for heterogeneous graph which contains different types of nodes and
links. The heterogeneity and rich semantic information bring great challenges
for designing a graph neural network for heterogeneous graph. Recently, one of
the most exciting advancements in deep learning is the attention mechanism,
whose great potential has been well demonstrated in various areas. In this
paper, we first propose a novel heterogeneous graph neural network based on the
hierarchical attention, including node-level and semantic-level attentions.
Specifically, the node-level attention aims to learn the importance between a
node and its metapath based neighbors, while the semantic-level attention is
able to learn the importance of different meta-paths. With the learned
importance from both node-level and semantic-level attention, the importance of
node and meta-path can be fully considered. Then the proposed model can
generate node embedding by aggregating features from meta-path based neighbors
in a hierarchical manner. Extensive experimental results on three real-world
heterogeneous graphs not only show the superior performance of our proposed
model over the state-of-the-arts, but also demonstrate its potentially good
interpretability for graph analysis.


