MUFold-SS: Protein Secondary Structure Prediction Using Deep
  Inception-Inside-Inception Networks

  Motivation: Protein secondary structure prediction can provide important
information for protein 3D structure prediction and protein functions. Deep
learning, which has been successfully applied to various research fields such
as image classification and voice recognition, provides a new opportunity to
significantly improve the secondary structure prediction accuracy. Although
several deep-learning methods have been developed for secondary structure
prediction, there is room for improvement. MUFold-SS was developed to address
these issues. Results: Here, a very deep neural network, the deep
inception-inside-inception networks (Deep3I), is proposed for protein secondary
structure prediction and a software tool was implemented using this network.
This network takes two inputs: a protein sequence and a profile generated by
PSI-BLAST. The output is the predicted eight states (Q8) or three states (Q3)
of secondary structures. The proposed Deep3I not only achieves the
state-of-the-art performance but also runs faster than other tools. Deep3I
achieves Q3 82.8% and Q8 71.1% accuracies on the CB513 benchmark.


A Finite-temperature First-principles Approach to Spin Fluctuation in
  BaFe_2As_2

  Thermodynamic flunctuations in BaFe2As2 is addressed with a first-principles
formulation of the Helmholtz energy by accounting for the mixture of various
electronic states each distinguished by different spin orientation
distributions. We find that it is the spin exchange coupling in the inter-plane
c direction that dictates the spin density wave ordering. We quantitatively
predicted the pressure dependence of the spin density wave ordering, the
Schottky anomaly, and the temperature dependence of thermal populations of spin
structures, all in agreement with available experimental data.


Problems with twilight/supersky flat-field for wide-field robotic
  telescopes and the solution

  Twilight/night sky images are often used for flat-fielding CCD images, but
the brightness gradient in twilight/night sky causes problems of accurate
flat-field correction in astronomical images for wide-field telescopes. Using
data from the Antarctic Survey Telescope (AST3), we found that when the sky
brightness gradient is minimum and stable, there is still a gradient of 1%
across AST3's field-of-view of 4.3 square degrees. We tested various approaches
to remove the varying gradients in individual flat-field images. Our final
optimal method can reduce the spatially dependent errors caused by the gradient
to the negligible level. We also suggest a guideline of flat-fielding using
twilight/night sky images for wide-field robotic autonomous telescopes.


Complementary relation of quantum coherence and quantum correlations in
  multiple measurements

  Quantum coherence and quantum correlations lie in the center of quantum
information science, since they both are considered as fundamental reasons for
significant features of quantum mechanics different from classical mechanics.
We present a group of complementary relations for quantum coherence and quantum
correlations; specifically, we focus on thermal discord and conditional
information in scenarios of multiple measurements. We show that the summation
of quantum coherence quantified in different bases has a lower bound, resulting
from entropic uncertainty relations with multiple measurements. Similar results
are also obtained for thermal discord and for post-measurement conditional
information with multiple measurements in a multipartite system. These results
indicate the general applications of the uncertainty principle to various
concepts of quantum information.


A First-principles approach to predict Seebeck coefficients: Application
  to La3-xTe4

  Theoretical descriptions of the Seebeck coefficient in terms of the
differential electrical conductivity given by Cutler and Mott is the foundation
of later works in terms of transmission function from the thermoelectric
transport theory. On the other hand, recent studies in the literature have
shown the relation between the Seebeck coefficient and chemical potential of
electrons. In this work, this relation is rigorously derived from fundamental
thermodynamics, and an formalism for the parameter-free calculation of the
Seebeck coefficient based on the electronic density-of-states from
first-principles calculations is presented. Numerical results are given using
the n-type La3-xTe4 thermoelectric material as the prototype. With the rigid
band approximation, the calculated temperature dependences of the Seebeck
coefficients of La3-xTe4 as a function of carrier concentration show excellent
agreements with experimental data.


First-Principles Thermodynamic Theory of Seebeck Coefficients

  Thermoelectric effects, measured by the Seebeck coefficients, refer to the
phenomena in which a temperature difference or gradient imposed across a
thermoelectric material induces an electrical potential difference or gradient,
and vice versa, enabling the direct conversion of thermal and electric
energies. All existing understanding and first-principles calculations of
Seebeck coefficients have been based on the Boltzmann kinetic transport theory.
Here we demonstrate that the Seebeck coefficient is a well-defined
thermodynamic quantity that can be determined from the change in the chemical
potential of electrons induced by the temperature change and thus can be
efficiently computed solely based on the electronic density of states through
first-principles calculations at different temperatures. The proposed approach
is demonstrated using the prototype PbTe and SnSe thermoelectric materials. The
proposed thermodynamic approach dramatically simplifies the calculations of
Seebeck coefficients, making it possible to search for high performance
thermoelectric materials using high-throughput first-principles calculations.


Single photon transmission in strong three-mode optomechanical
  circulatory system

  In the few-photon regime, we theoretically propose a feasible scheme to
realize strong coupling optomechanical cycle in a three-mode optomechanical
circulatory system (OMCS) comprising of cross-Kerr (CK) type and linear
coupling between the corresponding two bosonic modes, meanwhile, where one of
the bosonic modes is strongly coherently driven and the rest are weakly driven.
A Langevin equation for strong three-mode OMCS is derived by adjusting the
parameters of the appropriate strong coherent laser. We show that this strong
coupling of optomechanical originates from the strong coherently driven the CK
coupling modes, thereby, in coherent state displacement representation enhance
the optomechanical coupling and present the strengthen of the nonolinearity. We
obtain a set of optimal parameters by full numerical simulation of dynamics
matrix, under this condition, minimal strong OMCS that exhibit a single photon
perfect non-reciprocal transmission between the two optical modes, and
unidirectional transportation inter the optomechanical modes. For a detection
field, the system presents optomechanical induced transparency (OMIT) behavior.
The presented results can be widely applied to quantum devices such as
circulators, diodes, and transistors. Moreover, we brief analysis that a system
which consisting of dual mechanical modes and one optical mode, further extend
the system to a generalized coupled one-dimensional optomechanical array and
arbitrary modes optomechanical loop network. Experimentally, the system has
been demonstrated to be achieved through a variety of experimental protocols
and configurations, for example optomechanical crystal and integrated quantum
superconducting circuit.


Meteorological data for the astronomical site at Dome A, Antarctica

  We present an analysis of the meteorological data collected at Dome A,
Antarctica by the Kunlun Automated Weather Station, including temperatures and
wind speeds at eight elevations above the snow surface between 0m and 14.5m.
The average temperatures at 2m and 14.5m are $-54^{\circ}$C and $-46^{\circ}$C,
respectively. We find that a strong temperature inversion existed at all
heights for more than 70% of the time, and the temperature inversion typically
lasts longer than 25 hours, indicating an extremely stable atmosphere. The
temperature gradient is larger at lower elevations than higher elevations. The
average wind speed was 1.5m/s at 4m elevation. We find that the temperature
inversion is stronger when the wind speed is lower and the temperature gradient
decreases sharply at a specific wind speed for each elevation. The strong
temperature inversion and low wind speed results in a shallow and stable
boundary layer with weak atmospheric turbulence above it, suggesting that Dome
A should be an excellent site for astronomical observations. All the data from
the weather station are available for download.


A new method of CCD dark current correction via extracting the dark
  information from scientific images

  We have developed a new method to correct dark current at relatively high
temperatures for Charge-Coupled Device (CCD) images when dark frames cannot be
obtained on the telescope. For images taken with the Antarctic Survey
Telescopes (AST3) in 2012, due to the low cooling efficiency, the median CCD
temperature was -46$^\circ$C, resulting in a high dark current level of about
3$e^-$/pix/sec, even comparable to the sky brightness (10$e^-$/pix/sec). If not
corrected, the nonuniformity of the dark current could even overweight the
photon noise of the sky background. However, dark frames could not be obtained
during the observing season because the camera was operated in frame-transfer
mode without a shutter, and the telescope was unattended in winter. Here we
present an alternative, but simple and effective method to derive the dark
current frame from the scientific images. Then we can scale this dark frame to
the temperature at which the scientific images were taken, and apply the dark
frame corrections to the scientific images. We have applied this method to the
AST3 data, and demonstrated that it can reduce the noise to a level roughly as
low as the photon noise of the sky brightness, solving the high noise problem
and improving the photometric precision. This method will also be helpful for
other projects that suffer from similar issues.


The nonlinear photon transfer curve of CCDs and its effects on
  photometry

  The photon transfer curve (PTC, variance vs. signal level) is a commonly used
and effective tool in characterizing CCD performance. It is theoretically
linear in the range where photon shot noise dominates, and its slope is
utilized to derive the gain of the CCD. However, recent researches on different
CCDs have revealed that the variance progressively drops at high signal levels,
while the linearity shown by signal versus exposure time is still excellent and
unaffected. On the other hand, bright stars are found to exhibit fatter point
spread function (PSF). Both nonlinear PTC and the brighter-fatter effect are
regarded as the result of spreading of charges between pixels, an interaction
progress increasing with signal level. In this work we investigate the
nonlinear PTC based on the images with a STA1600FT CCD camera, whose PTC starts
to become nonlinear at about 1/3 full well. To explain the phenomenon, we
present a model to characterize the charge-sharing PSF. This signal-dependent
PSF can be derived from flat-field frames, and allow us to quantify the effects
on photometry and measured shape of stars. This effect is essentially critical
for projects requiring accurate photometry and shape parameters.


Meteorological data from KLAWS-2G for an astronomical site survey of
  Dome A, Antarctica

  We present an analysis of meteorological data from the second generation of
the Kunlun Automated Weather Station (KLAWS-2G) at Dome A, Antarctica during
2015 and 2016. We find that a strong temperature inversion exists for all the
elevations up to 14 m that KLAWS-2G can reach, and lasts for more than 10 hours
for 50% or more of the time when temperature inversion occurs. The average wind
speeds at 4 m elevation are 4.2 m/s and 3.8 m/s during 2015 and 2016,
respectively. The strong temperature inversion and moderate wind speed lead to
a shallow turbulent boundary layer height at Dome A. By analyzing the
temperature and wind shear profiles, we note telescopes should be elevated by
at least 8 m above the ice. We also find that the duration of temperature
inversions, and the wind speed, vary considerably from year to year. Therefore,
long-term and continuous data are still needed for the site survey at Dome A.


Thermodynamic Fluctuations in Magnetic Phase Transition: Invar as a
  Prototype

  We propose a first-principles formulism for system with spin fluctuations and
apply it to the ordered Fe3Pt to uncover the Invar anomalies, including
negative thermal expansion and spontaneous magnetization. The theory has
coherently predicted the finite temperature intermixing between the fully
ferromagnetic configuration and the spin-flipping configurations. We also
discover a tri-critical point at which a high-temperature second-order phase
transition, between the fully ferromagnetic configuration and the spin-flipping
configurations, becomes first-order at low temperatures.


All passive photonic power divider with arbitrary split ratio

  Integrated optical power splitter is one of the fundamental building blocks
in photonic integrated circuits (PIC). Conventional multimode interferometer
based power splitter is widely used as it has reasonable footprint and is easy
to fabricate. However, it is challenging to realize arbitrary split ratio
especially for multi-outputs. In this work, an ultra-compact power splitter
with a QR code-like nanostructure is designed by a nonlinear fast search method
(FSM). The highly functional structure is composed of a number of freely
designed square pixels with the size of 120nm x 120nm which could be either
dielectric or air. The lightwaves are scattered by a number of etched squares
with optimized locations and the scattered waves superimpose at the outputs
with the desired power ratio. We demonstrate 1x2 splitters with 1:1, 1:2, 1:3
split ratios and a 1x3 splitter with the ratio of 1:2:1. The footprint for all
the devices is only 3.6umx3.6 um. Well-controlled split ratios are measured for
all the cases. The measured transmission efficiencies of all the splitters are
close to 80% over 30 nm wavelength range.


Improving Protein Gamma-Turn Prediction Using Inception Capsule Networks

  Protein gamma-turn prediction is useful in protein function studies and
experimental design. Several methods for gamma-turn prediction have been
developed, but the results were unsatisfactory with Matthew correlation
coefficients (MCC) around 0.2-0.4. One reason for the low prediction accuracy
is the limited capacity of the methods; in particular, the traditional
machine-learning methods like SVM may not extract high-level features well to
distinguish between turn or non-turn. Hence, it is worthwhile exploring new
machine-learning methods for the prediction. A cutting-edge deep neural
network, named Capsule Network (CapsuleNet), provides a new opportunity for
gamma-turn prediction. Even when the number of input samples is relatively
small, the capsules from CapsuleNet are very effective to extract high-level
features for classification tasks. Here, we propose a deep inception capsule
network for gamma-turn prediction. Its performance on the gamma-turn benchmark
GT320 achieved an MCC of 0.45, which significantly outperformed the previous
best method with an MCC of 0.38. This is the first gamma-turn prediction method
utilizing deep neural networks. Also, to our knowledge, it is the first
published bioinformatics application utilizing capsule network, which will
provides a useful example for the community.


MUFold-BetaTurn: A Deep Dense Inception Network for Protein Beta-Turn
  Prediction

  Beta-turn prediction is useful in protein function studies and experimental
design. Although recent approaches using machine-learning techniques such as
SVM, neural networks, and K-NN have achieved good results for beta-turn
pre-diction, there is still significant room for improvement. As previous
predictors utilized features in a sliding window of 4-20 residues to capture
interactions among sequentially neighboring residues, such feature engineering
may result in incomplete or biased features, and neglect interactions among
long-range residues. Deep neural networks provide a new opportunity to address
these issues. Here, we proposed a deep dense inception network (DeepDIN) for
beta-turn prediction, which takes advantages of the state-of-the-art deep
neural network design of the DenseNet and the inception network. A test on a
recent BT6376 benchmark shows that the DeepDIN outperformed the previous best
BetaTPred3 significantly in both the overall prediction accuracy and the
nine-type beta-turn classification. A tool, called MUFold-BetaTurn, was
developed, which is the first beta-turn prediction tool utilizing deep neural
networks. The tool can be downloaded at
http://dslsrv8.cs.missouri.edu/~cf797/MUFoldBetaTurn/download.html.


Salience Biased Loss for Object Detection in Aerial Images

  Object detection in remote sensing, especially in aerial images, remains a
challenging problem due to low image resolution, complex backgrounds, and
variation of scale and angles of objects in images. In current implementations,
multi-scale based and angle-based networks have been proposed and generate
promising results with aerial image detection. In this paper, we propose a
novel loss function, called Salience Biased Loss (SBL), for deep neural
networks, which uses salience information of the input image to achieve
improved performance for object detection. Our novel loss function treats
training examples differently based on input complexity in order to avoid the
over-contribution of easy cases in the training process. In our experiments,
RetinaNet was trained with SBL to generate an one-stage detector,
SBL-RetinaNet. SBL-RetinaNet is applied to the largest existing public aerial
image dataset, DOTA. Experimental results show our proposed loss function with
the RetinaNet architecture outperformed other state-of-art object detection
models by at least 4.31 mAP, and RetinaNet by 2.26 mAP with the same inference
speed of RetinaNet.


The First Release of the AST3-1 Point Source Catalogue from Dome A,
  Antarctica

  The three Antarctic Survey Telescopes (AST3) aim to carry out time domain
imaging survey at Dome A, Antarctica. The first of the three telescopes
(AST3-1) was successfully deployed on January 2012. AST3-1 is a 500\,mm
aperture modified Schmidt telescope with a 680\,mm diameter primary mirror.
AST3-1 is equipped with a SDSS $i$ filter and a 10k $\times$ 10k frame transfer
CCD camera, reduced to 5k $\times$ 10k by electronic shuttering, resulting in a
4.3 deg$^2$ field-of-view. To verify the capability of AST3-1 for a variety of
science goals, extensive commissioning was carried out between March and May
2012. The commissioning included a survey covering 2000 deg$^2$ as well as the
entire Large and Small Magellanic Clouds. Frequent repeated images were made of
the center of the Large Magellanic Cloud, a selected exoplanet transit field,
and fields including some Wolf-Rayet stars. Here we present the data reduction
and photometric measurements of the point sources observed by AST3-1. We have
achieved a survey depth of 19.3\,mag in 60 s exposures with 5\,mmag precision
in the light curves of bright stars. The facility achieves sub-mmag photometric
precision under stable survey conditions, approaching its photon noise limit.
These results demonstrate that AST3-1 at Dome A is extraordinarily competitive
in time-domain astronomy, including both quick searches for faint transients
and the detection of tiny transit signals.


Edge Attention-based Multi-Relational Graph Convolutional Networks

  Graph convolutional network (GCN) is generalization of convolutional neural
network (CNN) to work with arbitrarily structured graphs. A binary adjacency
matrix is commonly used in training a GCN. Recently, the attention mechanism
allows the network to learn a dynamic and adaptive aggregation of the
neighborhood. We propose a new GCN model on the graphs where edges are
characterized in multiple views or precisely in terms of multiple
relationships. For instance, in chemical graph theory, compound structures are
often represented by the hydrogen-depleted molecular graph where nodes
correspond to atoms and edges correspond to chemical bonds. Multiple attributes
can be important to characterize chemical bonds, such as atom pair (the types
of atoms that a bond connects), aromaticity, and whether a bond is in a ring.
The different attributes lead to different graph representations for the same
molecule. There is growing interests in both chemistry and machine learning
fields to directly learn molecular properties of compounds from the molecular
graph, instead of from fingerprints predefined by chemists. The proposed GCN
model, which we call edge attention-based multi-relational GCN (EAGCN), jointly
learns attention weights and node features in graph convolution. For each bond
attribute, a real-valued attention matrix is used to replace the binary
adjacency matrix. By designing a dictionary for the edge attention, and forming
the attention matrix of each molecule by looking up the dictionary, the EAGCN
exploits correspondence between bonds in different molecules. The prediction of
compound properties is based on the aggregated node features, which is
independent of the varying molecule (graph) size. We demonstrate the efficacy
of the EAGCN on multiple chemical datasets: Tox21, HIV, Freesolv, and
Lipophilicity, and interpret the resultant attention weights.


Monte Carlo sampling from the quantum state space. II

  High-quality random samples of quantum states are needed for a variety of
tasks in quantum information and quantum computation. Searching the
high-dimensional quantum state space for a global maximum of an objective
function with many local maxima or evaluating an integral over a region in the
quantum state space are but two exemplary applications of many. These tasks can
only be performed reliably and efficiently with Monte Carlo methods, which
involve good samplings of the parameter space in accordance with the relevant
target distribution. We show how the Markov-chain Monte Carlo method known as
Hamiltonian Monte Carlo, or hybrid Monte Carlo, can be adapted to this context.
It is applicable when an efficient parameterization of the state space is
available. The resulting random walk is entirely inside the physical parameter
space, and the Hamiltonian dynamics enable us to take big steps, thereby
avoiding strong correlations between successive sample points while enjoying a
high acceptance rate. We use examples of single and double qubit measurements
for illustration.


Pressure-induced quantum phase transitions in topological insulator YbB6

  Topological insulators (TIs) containing 4f electrons have recently attracted
intensive interests due to the possible interplay of their non-trivial
topological properties and strong electronic correlations. YbB6 and SmB6 are
the prototypical systems with such unusual properties, which may be tuned by
external pressure to give rise to new emergent phenomena. Here, we report the
first observation, through in-situ high pressure resistance, Hall, X-ray
diffraction and X-ray absorption measurements, of two pressure-induced quantum
phase transitions (QPTs) in YbB6. Our data revealthat the two insulating phases
are separated by a metallic phase due to the pressure-driven valence change of
Yb f-orbitals. In combination with previous studies, our results suggest that
the two insulating states may be topologically different in nature and
originate from the d-p and d-f hybridization, respectively. The tunable
topological properties of YbB6 revealed in this study may shed light on the
intriguing correlation between the topology and the 4f electrons from the
perspective of pressure dependent studies.


Variable Stars Observed in the Galactic Disk by AST3-1 from Dome A,
  Antarctica

  AST3-1 is the second-generation wide-field optical photometric telescope
dedicated to time domain astronomy at Dome A, Antarctica. Here we present the
results of $i$ band images survey from AST3-1 towards one Galactic disk field.
Based on time-series photometry of 92,583 stars, 560 variable stars were
detected with $i$ magnitude $\leq$ 16.5 mag during eight days of observations;
339 of these are previously unknown variables. We tentatively classify the 560
variables as 285 eclipsing binaries (EW, EB, EA), 27 pulsating variable stars
($\delta$~Scuti, $\gamma$~Doradus, $\delta$~Cephei variable and RR Lyrae stars)
and 248 other types of variables (unclassified periodic, multi-periodic and
aperiodic variable stars). Among the eclipsing binaries, 34 show O'Connell
effects. One of the aperiodic variables shows a plateau light curve and another
one shows a secondary maximum after peak brightness. We also detected a complex
binary system with RS CVn-like light curve morphology; this object is being
followed-up spectroscopically using the Gemini South telescope.


The process of 3D-printed skull models for the anatomy education

  Objective The 3D printed medical models can come from virtual digital
resources, like CT scanning. Nevertheless, the accuracy of CT scanning
technology is limited, which is 1mm. In this situation, the collected data is
not exactly the same as the real structure and there might be some errors
causing the print to fail. This study presents a common and practical way to
process the skull data to make the structures correctly. And then we make a
skull model through 3D printing technology, which is useful for medical
students to understand the complex structure of skull. Materials and Methods
The skull data is collected by the CT scan. To get a corrected medical model,
the computer-assisted image processing goes with the combination of five 3D
manipulation tools: Mimics, 3ds Max, Geomagic, Mudbox and Meshmixer, to
reconstruct the digital model and repair it. Subsequently, we utilize a
low-cost desktop 3D printer, Ultimaker2, with polylactide filament (PLA)
material to print the model and paint it based on the atlas. Result After the
restoration and repairing, we eliminate the errors and repair the model by
adding the missing parts of the uploaded data within 6 hours. Then we print it
and compare the model with the cadaveric skull from frontal, left, right and
anterior views respectively. The printed model can show the same structures and
also the details of the skull clearly and is a good alternative of the
cadaveric skull.


Optical Observations of LIGO Source GW 170817 by the Antarctic Survey
  Telescopes at Dome A, Antarctica

  The LIGO detection of gravitational waves (GW) from merging black holes in
2015 marked the beginning of a new era in observational astronomy. The
detection of an electromagnetic signal from a GW source is the critical next
step to explore in detail the physics involved. The Antarctic Survey Telescopes
(AST3), located at Dome A, Antarctica, is uniquely situated for rapid response
time-domain astronomy with its continuous night-time coverage during the
austral winter. We report optical observations of the GW source (GW~170817) in
the nearby galaxy NGC 4993 using AST3. The data show a rapidly fading transient
at around 1 day after the GW trigger, with the $i$-band magnitude declining
from $17.23\pm0.13$ magnitude to $17.72\pm0.09$ magnitude in $\sim 1.8$ hour.
The brightness and time evolution of the optical transient associated with
GW~170817 are broadly consistent with the predictions of models involving
merging binary neutron stars. We infer from our data that the merging process
ejected about $\sim 10^{-2}$ solar mass of radioactive material at a speed of
up to $30\%$ the speed of light.


Optical Sky Brightness and Transparency During the Winter Season at Dome
  A Antarctica From the Gattini-Allsky Camera

  The summit of the Antarctic plateau, Dome A, is proving to be an excellent
site for optical, NIR, and THz astronomical observations. GATTINI was a
wide-field camera installed on the PLATO instrument module as part of the
Chinese-led traverse to Dome A in January, 2009. We present here the
measurements of sky brightness with the Gattini ultra-large field of view (90
deg x 90 deg) in the photometric B-, V-, and R-bands, cloud cover statistics
measured during the 2009 winter season, and an estimate of the sky
transparency. A cumulative probability distribution indicates that the darkest
10% of the nights at Dome A have sky brightness of S_B = 22.98, S_V = 21.86,
and S_R = 21.68 mag arcsec^{-2}. These values were obtained around the year
2009 with minimum aurora, and they are comparable to the faintest sky
brightness at Mauna Kea and the best sites of northern Chile. Since every
filter includes strong auroral lines that effectively contaminate the sky
brightness measurements, for instruments working around the auroral lines,
either with custom filters or with high spectral resolution instruments, these
values could be easily obtained on a more routine basis. In addition, we
present example light curves for bright targets to emphasize the unprecedented
observational window function available from this ground-based site. These
light curves will be published in a future paper.


Exoplanets in the Antarctic sky. II. 116 Transiting Exoplanet Candidates
  Found by AST3-II (CHESPA) within the Southern CVZ of TESS

  We report first results from the CHinese Exoplanet Searching Program from
Antarctica (CHESPA)---a wide-field high-resolution photometric survey for
transiting exoplanets carried out using telescopes of the AST3 (Antarctic
Survey Telescopes times 3) project. There are now three telescopes (AST3-I,
AST3-II, and CSTAR-II) operating at Dome A---the highest point on the Antarctic
Plateau---in a fully automatic and remote mode to exploit the superb observing
conditions of the site, and its long and uninterrupted polar nights. The search
for transiting exoplanets is one of the key projects for AST3. During the
Austral winters of 2016 and 2017 we used the AST3-II telescope to survey a set
of target fields near the southern ecliptic pole, falling within the continuous
viewing zone of the TESS mission \citep{Ricker10}. The first data release of
the 2016 data, including images, catalogs and lightcurves of 26578 bright stars
($7.5\le i \le15$) was presented in \citet{Zhang18}. The best precision, as
measured by the RMS of the lightcurves at the optimum magnitude of the survey
($i=10$), is around 2\,mmag. We detect 222 objects with plausible transit
signals from these data, 116 of which are plausible transiting exoplanet
candidates according to their stellar properties as given by the TESS Input
Catalog \citep{Stassun17}, Gaia DR2 \citep{Gaia18} and TESS-HERMES spectroscopy
\citep{Sharma18}. With the first data release from TESS expected in late 2018,
this candidate list will be a timely for improving the rejection of potential
false positives.


Exoplanets in the Antarctic Sky. I. The First Data Release of AST3-II
  (CHESPA) and New Found Variables within the Southern CVZ of TESS

  Located at Dome A, the highest point of the Antarctic plateau, the Chinese
Kunlun station is considered to be one of the best ground-based photometric
sites because of its extremely cold, dry, and stable atmosphere(Saunders et al.
2009). A target can be monitored from there for over 40 days without diurnal
interruption during a polar winter. This makes Kunlun station a perfect site to
search for short-period transiting exoplanets. Since 2008, an observatory has
been built at Kunlun station and three telescopes are working there. Using
these telescopes, the AST3 project has been carried out over the last six years
with a search for transiting exoplanets as one of its key programs (CHESPA). In
the austral winters of 2016 and 2017, a set of target fields in the Southern
CVZ of TESS (Ricker et al. 2009) were monitored by the AST3-II telescope. In
this paper, we introduce the CHESPA and present the first data release
containing photometry of 26,578 bright stars (m_i < 15). The best photometric
precision at the optimum magnitude for the survey is around 2 mmag. To
demonstrate the data quality, we also present a catalog of 221 variables with a
brightness variation greater than 5 mmag from the 2016 data. Among these
variables, 179 are newly identified periodic variables not listed in the AAVSO
databasea), and 67 are listed in the Candidate Target List(Stassun et al.
2017). These variables will require careful attention to avoid false-positive
signals when searching for transiting exoplanets. Dozens of new transiting
exoplanet candidates will be also released in a subsequent paper(Zhang et al.
2018b).


SCOPE: SCUBA-2 Continuum Observations of Pre-protostellar Evolution -
  Survey Description and Compact Source Catalogue

  We present the first release of the data and compact-source catalogue for the
JCMT Large Program SCUBA-2 Continuum Observations of Pre-protostellar Evolution
(SCOPE). SCOPE consists of 850-um continuum observations of 1235 Planck
Galactic Cold Clumps (PGCCs) made with the Submillimetre Common-User Bolometer
Array 2 on the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope. These data are at an angular
resolution of 14.4 arcsec, significantly improving upon the 353-GHz resolution
of Planck at 5 arcmin, and allowing for a catalogue of 3528 compact sources in
558 PGCCs. We find that the detected PGCCs have significant sub-structure, with
61 per cent of detected PGCCs having 3 or more compact sources, with
filamentary structure also prevalent within the sample. A detection rate of 45
per cent is found across the survey, which is 95 per cent complete to Planck
column densities of $N_{H_{2}}$ $>$ 5 $\times$ 10$^{21}$ cm$^{-2}$. By
positionally associating the SCOPE compact sources with YSOs, the star
formation efficiency, as measured by the ratio of luminosity to mass, in nearby
clouds is found to be similar to that in the more distant Galactic Plane, with
the column density distributions also indistinguishable from each other.


The Physics of the B Factories

  This work is on the Physics of the B Factories. Part A of this book contains
a brief description of the SLAC and KEK B Factories as well as their detectors,
BaBar and Belle, and data taking related issues. Part B discusses tools and
methods used by the experiments in order to obtain results. The results
themselves can be found in Part C.
  Please note that version 3 on the archive is the auxiliary version of the
Physics of the B Factories book. This uses the notation alpha, beta, gamma for
the angles of the Unitarity Triangle. The nominal version uses the notation
phi_1, phi_2 and phi_3. Please cite this work as Eur. Phys. J. C74 (2014) 3026.


