The $L_p$ Aleksandrov problem for origin-symmetric polytopes

  The $L_p$ Aleksandrov integral curvature and its corresponding
characterization problem---the $L_p$ Aleksandrov problem---were recently
introduced by Huang, Lutwak, Yang, and Zhang. The current work presents a
solution to the $L_p$ Aleksandrov problem for origin-symmetric polytopes when
$-1<p<0$.


Detection efficiency evaluation for a large area neutron sensitive
  microchannel plate detector

  In this paper, the detection efficiency of a large area neutron sensitive
microchannel plate detector has been evaluated. A 6LiF/ZnS detector was
employed as the benchmark detector, the TOF spectra of these two detectors were
simultaneously measured and the energy spectra were then deduced to calculate
the detection efficiency curve of the nMCP detector. Tests show the detection
efficiency@25.3 meV thermal neutron is 34% for this nMCP detector.


The dual Minkowski problem for negative indices

  Recently, the duals of Federer's curvature measures, called dual curvature
measures, were discovered by Huang, Lutwak, Yang, and Zhang (ACTA, 2016). In
the same paper, they posed the dual Minkowski problem, the characterization
problem for dual curvature measures, and proved existence results when the
index, q, is in (0,n). The dual Minkowski problem includes the Aleksandrov
problem (q = 0) and the logarithmic Minkowski problem (q = n) as special cases.
In the current work, a complete solution to the dual Minkowski problem whenever
q < 0, including both existence and uniqueness, is presented.


Equipartition Dark Energy

  We explain dark energy with equipartition theorem in string landscape.


Broadband Quantum Efficiency Enhancement in High Index Nanowires
  Resonators

  Light trapping in sub-wavelength semiconductor nanowires (NWs) offers a
promising approach to simultaneously reducing material consumption and
enhancing photovoltaic performance. Nevertheless, the absorption efficiency of
a NW, defined by the ratio of optical absorption cross section to the NW
diameter, lingers around 1 in existing NW photonic devices, and the absorption
enhancement suffers from a narrow spectral width. Here, we show that the
absorption efficiency can be significantly improved in NWs with higher
refractive indices, by an experimental observation of up to 350% external
quantum efficiency (EQE) in lead sulfide (PbS) NW resonators, a 3-fold increase
compared to Si NWs. Furthermore, broadband absorption enhancement is achieved
in single tapered NWs, where light of various wavelengths is absorbed at
segments with different diameters analogous to a tandem solar cell. Overall,
the single NW Schottky junction solar cells benefit from optical resonance,
near bandgap open circuit voltage, and long minority carrier diffusion length,
demonstrating power conversion efficiency (PCE) comparable to single Si NW
coaxial p-n junction cells11, but with much simpler fabrication processes.


iDRM: Humanoid Motion Planning with Real-Time End-Pose Selection in
  Complex Environments

  In this paper, we propose a novel inverse Dynamic Reachability Map (iDRM)
that allows a floating base system to find valid end-poses in complex and
dynamically changing environments in real-time. End-pose planning for valid
stance pose and collision-free configuration is an essential problem for
humanoid applications, such as providing goal states for walking and motion
planners. However, this is non-trivial in complex environments, where standing
locations and reaching postures are restricted by obstacles. Our proposed iDRM
customizes the robot-to-workspace occupation list and uses an online update
algorithm to enable efficient reconstruction of the reachability map to
guarantee that the selected end-poses are always collision-free. The iDRM was
evaluated in a variety of reaching tasks using the 38 degree-of-freedom (DoF)
humanoid robot Valkyrie. Our results show that the approach is capable of
finding valid end-poses in a fraction of a second. Significantly, we also
demonstrate that motion planning algorithms integrating our end-pose planning
method are more efficient than those not utilizing this technique.


Scaling Sampling-based Motion Planning to Humanoid Robots

  Planning balanced and collision-free motion for humanoid robots is
non-trivial, especially when they are operated in complex environments, such as
reaching targets behind obstacles or through narrow passages. We propose a
method that allows us to apply existing sampling--based algorithms to plan
trajectories for humanoids by utilizing a customized state space
representation, biased sampling strategies, and a steering function based on a
robust inverse kinematics solver. Our approach requires no prior offline
computation, thus one can easily transfer the work to new robot platforms. We
tested the proposed method solving practical reaching tasks on a 38
degrees-of-freedom humanoid robot, NASA Valkyrie, showing that our method is
able to generate valid motion plans that can be executed on advanced full-size
humanoid robots. We also present a benchmark between different motion planning
algorithms evaluated on a variety of reaching motion problems. This allows us
to find suitable algorithms for solving humanoid motion planning problems, and
to identify the limitations of these algorithms.


Engineering zero modes, Fano resonance and Tamm surface states of 'bound
  states in the gapped continuum'

  In this article, we developed a generalized coupled-mode theory for mixing an
isolated state with the gapped continuum to unify the engineering mechanism of
gap-protected zero modes, Fano resonance and Tamm surface states, even though
those phenomena are diverse in numerous branches of physics and optics. By
tuning the on-site potential and coupling strength of/with the isolated state,
we found the operating characteristics from zero modes, Fano resonance and to
Tamm modes, with explicitly demonstrating their localization, transmission
spectra and distinct evolution dynamics of the 'bound states in the gapped
continuum' (BIGC). As an extent, we designed two sandwich-like structures in
the BIGC framework: (1) the 'isolated-continuous-isolated' (ICI), which leads
to adiabatic elimination technique and topologically-protected edge states, and
(2) the 'continuous-isolated-continuous' (CIC), which results into the domain
wall dynamics. Finally, we proposed the optical waveguide array (WA) modelling
of the modified Su-Schrieffer-Heeger dimerized lattice to achieve those
interesting engineering processes, and meanwhile to shed light on the
generalization of bound states in the continuum into photonics and condensed
matters.


Flexible Representation and Manipulation of Audio Signals on Quantum
  Computers

  By analyzing the numerical representation of amplitude values in audio
signals and integrating the time component, a representation for audio signals
on quantum computers, FRQA, is proposed. The FRQA representation is a
normalized state that facilitates basic audio signal operations targeting these
parameters. The preparation and retrieval for FRQA are discussed and, based on
the FRQA state, we realize the circuits to accomplish basic audio signal
operations such as signal addition, signal inversion, signal delay, and signal
reversal. These operations can be employed as the major components to build
advanced operations for particular applications in the quantum computing
domain.


Co-Clustering for Multitask Learning

  This paper presents a new multitask learning framework that learns a shared
representation among the tasks, incorporating both task and feature clusters.
The jointly-induced clusters yield a shared latent subspace where task
relationships are learned more effectively and more generally than in
state-of-the-art multitask learning methods. The proposed general framework
enables the derivation of more specific or restricted state-of-the-art
multitask methods. The paper also proposes a highly-scalable multitask learning
algorithm, based on the new framework, using conjugate gradient descent and
generalized \textit{Sylvester equations}. Experimental results on synthetic and
benchmark datasets show that the proposed method systematically outperforms
several state-of-the-art multitask learning methods.


DARTS: Differentiable Architecture Search

  This paper addresses the scalability challenge of architecture search by
formulating the task in a differentiable manner. Unlike conventional approaches
of applying evolution or reinforcement learning over a discrete and
non-differentiable search space, our method is based on the continuous
relaxation of the architecture representation, allowing efficient search of the
architecture using gradient descent. Extensive experiments on CIFAR-10,
ImageNet, Penn Treebank and WikiText-2 show that our algorithm excels in
discovering high-performance convolutional architectures for image
classification and recurrent architectures for language modeling, while being
orders of magnitude faster than state-of-the-art non-differentiable techniques.


The calibration and electron energy reconstruction of the BGO ECAL of
  the DAMPE detector

  The DArk Matter Particle Explorer (DAMPE) is a space experiment designed to
search for dark matter indirectly by measuring the spectra of photons,
electrons, and positrons up to 10 TeV. The BGO electromagnetic calorimeter
(ECAL) is its main sub-detector for energy measurement. In this paper, the
instrumentation and development of the BGO ECAL is briefly described. The
calibration on the ground, including the pedestal, minimum ionizing particle
(MIP) peak, dynode ratio, and attenuation length with the cosmic rays and beam
particles is discussed in detail. Also, the energy reconstruction results of
the electrons from the beam test are presented.


The dual Minkowski problem for symmetric convex bodies

  The dual Minkowski problem for even data asks what are the necessary and
sufficient conditions on an even prescribed measure on the unit sphere for it
to be the $q$-th dual curvature measure of an origin-symmetric convex body in
$\mathbb{R}^n$. A full solution to this is given when $1 < q < n$.
  The necessary and sufficient condition is an explicit measure concentration
condition. A variational approach is used, where the functional is the sum of a
dual quermassintegral and an entropy integral. The proof requires two crucial
estimates. The first is an estimate of the entropy integral proved using a
spherical partition. The second is a sharp estimate of the dual
quermassintegrals for a carefully chosen barrier convex body.


Data-driven Random Fourier Features using Stein Effect

  Large-scale kernel approximation is an important problem in machine learning
research. Approaches using random Fourier features have become increasingly
popular [Rahimi and Recht, 2007], where kernel approximation is treated as
empirical mean estimation via Monte Carlo (MC) or Quasi-Monte Carlo (QMC)
integration [Yang et al., 2014]. A limitation of the current approaches is that
all the features receive an equal weight summing to 1. In this paper, we
propose a novel shrinkage estimator from "Stein effect", which provides a
data-driven weighting strategy for random features and enjoys theoretical
justifications in terms of lowering the empirical risk. We further present an
efficient randomized algorithm for large-scale applications of the proposed
method. Our empirical results on six benchmark data sets demonstrate the
advantageous performance of this approach over representative baselines in both
kernel approximation and supervised learning tasks.


Low Rank Variation Dictionary and Inverse Projection Group Sparse
  Representation Model for Breast Tumor Classification

  Sparse representation classification achieves good results by addressing
recognition problem with sufficient training samples per subject. However, SRC
performs not very well for small sample data. In this paper, an
inverse-projection group sparse representation model is presented for breast
tumor classification, which is based on constructing low-rank variation
dictionary. The proposed low-rank variation dictionary tackles tumor
recognition problem from the viewpoint of detecting and using variations in
gene expression profiles of normal and patients, rather than directly using
these samples. The inverse projection group sparsity representation model is
constructed based on taking full using of exist samples and group effect of
microarray gene data. Extensive experiments on public breast tumor microarray
gene expression datasets demonstrate the proposed technique is competitive with
state-of-the-art methods. The results of Breast-1, Breast-2 and Breast-3
databases are 80.81%, 89.10% and 100% respectively, which are better than the
latest literature.


Meta Reinforcement Learning with Distribution of Exploration Parameters
  Learned by Evolution Strategies

  In this paper, we propose a novel meta-learning method in a reinforcement
learning setting, based on evolution strategies (ES), exploration in parameter
space and deterministic policy gradients. ES methods are easy to parallelize,
which is desirable for modern training architectures; however, such methods
typically require a huge number of samples for effective training. We use
deterministic policy gradients during adaptation and other techniques to
compensate for the sample-efficiency problem while maintaining the inherent
scalability of ES methods. We demonstrate that our method achieves good results
compared to gradient-based meta-learning in high-dimensional control tasks in
the MuJoCo simulator. In addition, because of gradient-free methods in the
meta-training phase, which do not need information about gradients and policies
in adaptation training, we predict and confirm our algorithm performs better in
tasks that need multi-step adaptation.


Spin Gap and Resonance at the Nesting Wavevector in Superconducting
  FeSe0.4Te0.6

  Neutron scattering is used to probe magnetic excitations in
FeSe_{0.4}Te_{0.6} (T_c=14 K). Low energy spin fluctuations are found with a
characteristic wave vector $(0.5,0.5,L)$ that corresponds to Fermi surface
nesting and differs from Q_m=(\delta,0,0.5) for magnetic ordering in
Fe_{1+y}Te. A spin resonance with \hbar\Omega_0=6.5 meV \approx 5.3 k_BT_c and
\hbar\Gamma=1.25 meV develops in the superconducting state from a normal state
continuum. We show that the resonance is consistent with a bound state
associated with s+/- superconductivity and imperfect quasi-2D Fermi surface
nesting.


Polaron-mediated spin correlations in metallic and insulating
  La$_{1-x}A_{x}$MnO$_{3}$ ($A$=Ca, Sr, or Ba)

  Neutron spectroscopy measurements reveal short-range spin correlations near
and above the ferromagnetic-paramagnetic phase transition in manganite
materials of the form La$_{1-x}A_{x}$MnO$_{3}$, including samples with an
insulating ground state as well as colossal magnetoresistive samples with a
metallic ground state. Quasielastic magnetic scattering is revealed that forms
clear ridges running along the [100]-type directions in momentum space. A
simple model consisting of a conduction electron hopping between spin polarized
Mn ions that becomes self-trapped after a few hops captures the essential
physics of this magnetic component of the scattering. We associate this
scattering component with the magnetic part of diffuse polarons, as we observe
a temperature dependence similar to that of the diffuse structural scattering
arising from individual polarons.


Spin Generation Via Bulk Spin Current in Three Dimensional Topological
  Insulators

  To date, spin generation in three-dimensional topological insulators is
primarily modeled as a single-surface phenomenon, attributed to the
momentum-spin locking on each individual surface. In this article we propose a
mechanism of spin generation where the role of the insulating yet topologically
non-trivial bulk becomes explicit: an external electric field creates a
transverse pure spin current through the bulk of a three-dimensional
topological insulator, which transports spins between the top and bottom
surfaces. Under sufficiently high surface disorder, the spin relaxation time
can be extended via the Dyakonov-Perel mechanism. Consequently both the spin
generation efficiency and surface conductivity are largely enhanced. Numerical
simulation confirms that this spin generation mechanism originates from the
unique topological connection of the top and bottom surfaces and is absent in
other two dimensional systems such as graphene, even though they possess a
similar Dirac cone-type dispersion.


Hot Carrier Trapping Induced Negative Photoconductance in InAs Nanowires
  toward Novel Nonvolatile Memory

  We report a novel negative photoconductivity (NPC) mechanism in n-type indium
arsenide nanowires (NWs). Photoexcitation significantly suppresses the
conductivity with a gain up to 10^5. The origin of NPC is attributed to the
depletion of conduction channels by light assisted hot electron trapping,
supported by gate voltage threshold shift and wavelength dependent
photoconductance measurements. Scanning photocurrent microscopy excludes the
possibility that NPC originates from the NW/metal contacts and reveals a
competing positive photoconductivity. The conductivity recovery after
illumination substantially slows down at low temperature, indicating a
thermally activated detrapping mechanism. At 78 K, the spontaneous recovery of
the conductance is completely quenched, resulting in a reversible memory device
which can be switched by light and gate voltage pulses. The novel NPC based
optoelectronics may find exciting applications in photodetection and
nonvolatile memory with low power consumption.


Gate-tunable superconducting quantum interference devices of PbS
  nanowires

  We report on the fabrication and electrical transport properties of
gate-tunable superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs), made of
semiconducting PbS nanowire contacted with PbIn superconducting electrodes.
Applied with a magnetic field perpendicular to the plane of the nano-hybrid
SQUID, periodic oscillations of the critical current due to the flux
quantization in SQUID are observed up to T = 4.0 K. Nonsinusoidal current-phase
relationship is obtained as a function of temperature and gate voltage, which
is consistent with a short and diffusive junction model.


RACE: Large-scale ReAding Comprehension Dataset From Examinations

  We present RACE, a new dataset for benchmark evaluation of methods in the
reading comprehension task. Collected from the English exams for middle and
high school Chinese students in the age range between 12 to 18, RACE consists
of near 28,000 passages and near 100,000 questions generated by human experts
(English instructors), and covers a variety of topics which are carefully
designed for evaluating the students' ability in understanding and reasoning.
In particular, the proportion of questions that requires reasoning is much
larger in RACE than that in other benchmark datasets for reading comprehension,
and there is a significant gap between the performance of the state-of-the-art
models (43%) and the ceiling human performance (95%). We hope this new dataset
can serve as a valuable resource for research and evaluation in machine
comprehension. The dataset is freely available at
http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~glai1/data/race/ and the code is available at
https://github.com/qizhex/RACE_AR_baselines.


Strong and nonmonotonic temperature dependence of Hall coefficient in
  superconducting K$_x$Fe$_{2-y}$Se$_2$ single crystals

  In-plane resistivity, magnetoresistance and Hall effect measurements have
been conducted on quenched K$_x$Fe$_{2-y}$Se$_2$ single crystals in order to
analysis the normal-state transport properties. It is found that the Kohler's
rule is well obeyed below about 80 K, but clearly violated above 80 K.
Measurements of the Hall coefficient reveal a strong but non-monotonic
temperature dependence with a maximum at about 80 K, in contrast to any other
FeAs-based superconductors. With the two-band model analysis on the Hall
coefficient, we conclude that a gap may open below 65 K. The data above 65 K
are interpreted as a temperature induced crossover from a metallic state at a
low temperature to an orbital-selective Mott phase at a high temperature. This
is consistent with the recent data of angle resolved photoemission
spectroscopy. These results call for a refined theoretical understanding,
especially when the hole pockets are absent or become trivial in
K$_x$Fe$_{2-y}$Se$_2$ superconductors.


High-Performance Monolayer WS2 Field-effect Transistors on High-k
  Dielectrics

  The combination of high-quality Al2O3 dielectric and thiol chemistry
passivation can effectively reduce the density of interface traps and Coulomb
impurities of WS2, leading to a significant improvement of the mobility and a
transition of the charge transport from the insulating to the metallic regime.
A record high mobility of 83 cm2/Vs (337 cm2/Vs) is reached at room temperature
(low temperature) for monolayer WS2. A theoretical model for electron transport
is also developed.


Realization of Room-Temperature Phonon-limited Carrier Transport in
  Monolayer MoS2 by Dielectric and Carrier Screening

  We show that by combining high-k dielectric substrate and high density of
charge carriers, Coulomb impurity can be effectively screened, leading to an
unprecedented room-temperature mobility of ~150cm2/Vs in monolayer MoS2. The
high sample quality enables us to quantitatively extract the mobility
components limited by Coulomb impurities, intrinsic and surface optical
phonons, and study their scaling with temperature, carrier density and
dielectric constant. The excellent agreement between our theoretical analysis
and experimental data demonstrates unambiguously that room-temperature
phonon-limited transport is achieved in monolayer MoS2, which is a necessary
factor for electronic device applications.


Cross-Graph Learning of Multi-Relational Associations

  Cross-graph Relational Learning (CGRL) refers to the problem of predicting
the strengths or labels of multi-relational tuples of heterogeneous object
types, through the joint inference over multiple graphs which specify the
internal connections among each type of objects. CGRL is an open challenge in
machine learning due to the daunting number of all possible tuples to deal with
when the numbers of nodes in multiple graphs are large, and because the labeled
training instances are extremely sparse as typical. Existing methods such as
tensor factorization or tensor-kernel machines do not work well because of the
lack of convex formulation for the optimization of CGRL models, the poor
scalability of the algorithms in handling combinatorial numbers of tuples,
and/or the non-transductive nature of the learning methods which limits their
ability to leverage unlabeled data in training. This paper proposes a novel
framework which formulates CGRL as a convex optimization problem, enables
transductive learning using both labeled and unlabeled tuples, and offers a
scalable algorithm that guarantees the optimal solution and enjoys a linear
time complexity with respect to the sizes of input graphs. In our experiments
with a subset of DBLP publication records and an Enzyme multi-source dataset,
the proposed method successfully scaled to the large cross-graph inference
problem, and outperformed other representative approaches significantly.


Very Strong Superconducting Proximity Effects in PbS Semiconductor
  Nanowires

  We report the fabrication of strongly coupled nanohybrid superconducting
junctions using PbS semiconductor nanowires and Pb0.5In0.5 superconducting
electrodes. The maximum supercurrent in the junction reaches up to ~15 \mu A at
0.3 K, which is the highest value ever observed in semiconductor-nanowire-based
superconducting junctions. The observation of microwave-induced constant
voltage steps confirms the existence of genuine Josephson coupling through the
nanowire. Monotonic suppression of the critical current under an external
magnetic field is also in good agreement with the narrow junction model. The
temperature-dependent stochastic distribution of the switching current exhibits
a crossover from phase diffusion to a thermal activation process as the
temperature decreases. These strongly coupled nanohybrid superconducting
junctions would be advantageous to the development of gate-tunable
superconducting quantum information devices.


Modeling Long- and Short-Term Temporal Patterns with Deep Neural
  Networks

  Multivariate time series forecasting is an important machine learning problem
across many domains, including predictions of solar plant energy output,
electricity consumption, and traffic jam situation. Temporal data arise in
these real-world applications often involves a mixture of long-term and
short-term patterns, for which traditional approaches such as Autoregressive
models and Gaussian Process may fail. In this paper, we proposed a novel deep
learning framework, namely Long- and Short-term Time-series network (LSTNet),
to address this open challenge. LSTNet uses the Convolution Neural Network
(CNN) and the Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) to extract short-term local
dependency patterns among variables and to discover long-term patterns for time
series trends. Furthermore, we leverage traditional autoregressive model to
tackle the scale insensitive problem of the neural network model. In our
evaluation on real-world data with complex mixtures of repetitive patterns,
LSTNet achieved significant performance improvements over that of several
state-of-the-art baseline methods. All the data and experiment codes are
available online.


Cross-lingual Distillation for Text Classification

  Cross-lingual text classification(CLTC) is the task of classifying documents
written in different languages into the same taxonomy of categories. This paper
presents a novel approach to CLTC that builds on model distillation, which
adapts and extends a framework originally proposed for model compression. Using
soft probabilistic predictions for the documents in a label-rich language as
the (induced) supervisory labels in a parallel corpus of documents, we train
classifiers successfully for new languages in which labeled training data are
not available. An adversarial feature adaptation technique is also applied
during the model training to reduce distribution mismatch. We conducted
experiments on two benchmark CLTC datasets, treating English as the source
language and German, French, Japan and Chinese as the unlabeled target
languages. The proposed approach had the advantageous or comparable performance
of the other state-of-art methods.


Analogical Inference for Multi-Relational Embeddings

  Large-scale multi-relational embedding refers to the task of learning the
latent representations for entities and relations in large knowledge graphs. An
effective and scalable solution for this problem is crucial for the true
success of knowledge-based inference in a broad range of applications. This
paper proposes a novel framework for optimizing the latent representations with
respect to the \textit{analogical} properties of the embedded entities and
relations. By formulating the learning objective in a differentiable fashion,
our model enjoys both theoretical power and computational scalability, and
significantly outperformed a large number of representative baseline methods on
benchmark datasets. Furthermore, the model offers an elegant unification of
several well-known methods in multi-relational embedding, which can be proven
to be special instantiations of our framework.


Learning Depthwise Separable Graph Convolution from Data Manifold

  Convolution Neural Network (CNN) has gained tremendous success in computer
vision tasks with its outstanding ability to capture the local latent features.
Recently, there has been an increasing interest in extending convolution
operations to the non-Euclidean geometry. Although various types of convolution
operations have been proposed for graphs or manifolds, their connections with
traditional convolution over grid-structured data are not well-understood. In
this paper, we show that depthwise separable convolution can be successfully
generalized for the unification of both graph-based and grid-based convolution
methods. Based on this insight we propose a novel Depthwise Separable Graph
Convolution (DSGC) approach which is compatible with the tradition convolution
network and subsumes existing convolution methods as special cases. It is
equipped with the combined strengths in model expressiveness, compatibility
(relatively small number of parameters), modularity and computational
efficiency in training. Extensive experiments show the outstanding performance
of DSGC in comparison with strong baselines on multi-domain benchmark datasets.


Convolutional Normalizing Flows

  Bayesian posterior inference is prevalent in various machine learning
problems. Variational inference provides one way to approximate the posterior
distribution, however its expressive power is limited and so is the accuracy of
resulting approximation. Recently, there has a trend of using neural networks
to approximate the variational posterior distribution due to the flexibility of
neural network architecture. One way to construct flexible variational
distribution is to warp a simple density into a complex by normalizing flows,
where the resulting density can be analytically evaluated. However, there is a
trade-off between the flexibility of normalizing flow and computation cost for
efficient transformation. In this paper, we propose a simple yet effective
architecture of normalizing flows, ConvFlow, based on convolution over the
dimensions of random input vector. Experiments on synthetic and real world
posterior inference problems demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of
the proposed method.


Asymmetric Variational Autoencoders

  Variational inference for latent variable models is prevalent in various
machine learning problems, typically solved by maximizing the Evidence Lower
Bound (ELBO) of the true data likelihood with respect to a variational
distribution. However, freely enriching the family of variational distribution
is challenging since the ELBO requires variational likelihood evaluations of
the latent variables. In this paper, we propose a novel framework to enrich the
variational family by incorporating auxiliary variables to the variational
family. The resulting inference network doesn't require density evaluations for
the auxiliary variables and thus complex implicit densities over the auxiliary
variables can be constructed by neural networks. It can be shown that the
actual variational posterior of the proposed approach is essentially modeling a
rich probabilistic mixture of simple variational posterior indexed by auxiliary
variables, thus a flexible inference model can be built. Empirical evaluations
on several density estimation tasks demonstrates the effectiveness of the
proposed method.


Cooperative Transmission for Physical Layer Security by Exploring Social
  Awareness

  Social awareness and social ties are becoming increasingly fashionable with
emerging mobile and handheld devices. Social trust degree describing the
strength of the social ties has drawn lots of research interests in many fields
including secure cooperative communications. Such trust degree reflects the
users' willingness for cooperation, which impacts the selection of the
cooperative users in the practical networks. In this paper, we propose a
cooperative relay and jamming selection scheme to secure communication based on
the social trust degree under a stochastic geometry framework. We aim to
analyze the involved secrecy outage probability (SOP) of the system's
performance. To achieve this target, we propose a double Gamma ratio (DGR)
approach through Gamma approximation. Based on this, the SOP is tractably
obtained in closed form. The simulation results verify our theoretical
findings, and validate that the social trust degree has dramatic influences on
the network's secrecy performance.


Fabrication and Characterization of Superconducting Quantum Interference
  Device using (Bi_{1-x}Sb_x)_2Se_3 Topological Insulator Nanoribbons

  We report on the fabrication and electrical transport properties of
superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs) made from a
(Bi_{1-x}Sb_x)_2Se_3 topological insulator (TI) nanoribbon (NR) connected with
Pb0.5In0.5 superconducting electrodes. Below the transition temperature of the
superconducting Pb0.5In0.5 electrodes, periodic oscillations of the critical
current are observed in the TI NR SQUID under a magnetic field applied
perpendicular to the plane owing to flux quantization. Also the output voltage
modulates as a function of the external magnetic field. Moreover, the SQUID the
SQUID shows a voltage modulation envelope, which is considered to represent the
Fraunhofer-like patterns of each single junction. These properties of the TI NR
SQUID would provide a useful method to explore Majorana fermions.


Quantum critical behavior in Ce(Fe$_{0.76}$Ru$_{0.24}$)$_2$Ge$_2$: the
  full story

  Systems with embedded magnetic ions that exhibit a competition between
magnetic order and disorder down to absolute zero can display unusual low
temperature behaviors of the resistivity, susceptibility, and specific heat.
Moreover, the dynamic response of such a system can display hyperscaling
behavior in which the relaxation back to equilibrium when an amount of energy E
is given to the system at temperature T only depends on the ratio E/T.
Ce(Fe$_{0.755}$Ru$_{0.245}$)$_2$Ge$_2$ is a system that displays these
behaviors. We show that these complex behaviors are rooted in a fragmentation
of the magnetic lattice upon cooling caused by a distribution of local Kondo
screening temperatures, and that the hyperscaling behavior can be attributed to
the flipping of the total magnetic moment of magnetic clusters that
spontaneously form and order upon cooling. We present our arguments based on
the review of two-decades worth of neutron scattering and transport data on
this system, augmented with new polarized neutron scattering experiments.


Full 3D Reconstruction of Transparent Objects

  Numerous techniques have been proposed for reconstructing 3D models for
opaque objects in past decades. However, none of them can be directly applied
to transparent objects. This paper presents a fully automatic approach for
reconstructing complete 3D shapes of transparent objects. Through positioning
an object on a turntable, its silhouettes and light refraction paths under
different viewing directions are captured. Then, starting from an initial rough
model generated from space carving, our algorithm progressively optimizes the
model under three constraints: surface and refraction normal consistency,
surface projection and silhouette consistency, and surface smoothness.
Experimental results on both synthetic and real objects demonstrate that our
method can successfully recover the complex shapes of transparent objects and
faithfully reproduce their light refraction properties.


Stochastic WaveNet: A Generative Latent Variable Model for Sequential
  Data

  How to model distribution of sequential data, including but not limited to
speech and human motions, is an important ongoing research problem. It has been
demonstrated that model capacity can be significantly enhanced by introducing
stochastic latent variables in the hidden states of recurrent neural networks.
Simultaneously, WaveNet, equipped with dilated convolutions, achieves
astonishing empirical performance in natural speech generation task. In this
paper, we combine the ideas from both stochastic latent variables and dilated
convolutions, and propose a new architecture to model sequential data, termed
as Stochastic WaveNet, where stochastic latent variables are injected into the
WaveNet structure. We argue that Stochastic WaveNet enjoys powerful
distribution modeling capacity and the advantage of parallel training from
dilated convolutions. In order to efficiently infer the posterior distribution
of the latent variables, a novel inference network structure is designed based
on the characteristics of WaveNet architecture. State-of-the-art performances
on benchmark datasets are obtained by Stochastic WaveNet on natural speech
modeling and high quality human handwriting samples can be generated as well.


Unsupervised Cross-lingual Transfer of Word Embedding Spaces

  Cross-lingual transfer of word embeddings aims to establish the semantic
mappings among words in different languages by learning the transformation
functions over the corresponding word embedding spaces. Successfully solving
this problem would benefit many downstream tasks such as to translate text
classification models from resource-rich languages (e.g. English) to
low-resource languages. Supervised methods for this problem rely on the
availability of cross-lingual supervision, either using parallel corpora or
bilingual lexicons as the labeled data for training, which may not be available
for many low resource languages. This paper proposes an unsupervised learning
approach that does not require any cross-lingual labeled data. Given two
monolingual word embedding spaces for any language pair, our algorithm
optimizes the transformation functions in both directions simultaneously based
on distributional matching as well as minimizing the back-translation losses.
We use a neural network implementation to calculate the Sinkhorn distance, a
well-defined distributional similarity measure, and optimize our objective
through back-propagation. Our evaluation on benchmark datasets for bilingual
lexicon induction and cross-lingual word similarity prediction shows stronger
or competitive performance of the proposed method compared to other
state-of-the-art supervised and unsupervised baseline methods over many
language pairs.


Switch-based Active Deep Dyna-Q: Efficient Adaptive Planning for
  Task-Completion Dialogue Policy Learning

  Training task-completion dialogue agents with reinforcement learning usually
requires a large number of real user experiences. The Dyna-Q algorithm extends
Q-learning by integrating a world model, and thus can effectively boost
training efficiency using simulated experiences generated by the world model.
The effectiveness of Dyna-Q, however, depends on the quality of the world model
- or implicitly, the pre-specified ratio of real vs. simulated experiences used
for Q-learning. To this end, we extend the recently proposed Deep Dyna-Q (DDQ)
framework by integrating a switcher that automatically determines whether to
use a real or simulated experience for Q-learning. Furthermore, we explore the
use of active learning for improving sample efficiency, by encouraging the
world model to generate simulated experiences in the state-action space where
the agent has not (fully) explored. Our results show that by combining switcher
and active learning, the new framework named as Switch-based Active Deep Dyna-Q
(Switch-DDQ), leads to significant improvement over DDQ and Q-learning
baselines in both simulation and human evaluations.


Kernel Change-point Detection with Auxiliary Deep Generative Models

  Detecting the emergence of abrupt property changes in time series is a
challenging problem. Kernel two-sample test has been studied for this task
which makes fewer assumptions on the distributions than traditional parametric
approaches. However, selecting kernels is non-trivial in practice. Although
kernel selection for two-sample test has been studied, the insufficient samples
in change point detection problem hinder the success of those developed kernel
selection algorithms. In this paper, we propose KL-CPD, a novel kernel learning
framework for time series CPD that optimizes a lower bound of test power via an
auxiliary generative model. With deep kernel parameterization, KL-CPD endows
kernel two-sample test with the data-driven kernel to detect different types of
change-points in real-world applications. The proposed approach significantly
outperformed other state-of-the-art methods in our comparative evaluation of
benchmark datasets and simulation studies.


An Adversarial Approach to High-Quality, Sentiment-Controlled Neural
  Dialogue Generation

  In this work, we propose a method for neural dialogue response generation
that allows not only generating semantically reasonable responses according to
the dialogue history, but also explicitly controlling the sentiment of the
response via sentiment labels. Our proposed model is based on the paradigm of
conditional adversarial learning; the training of a sentiment-controlled
dialogue generator is assisted by an adversarial discriminator which assesses
the fluency and feasibility of the response generating from the dialogue
history and a given sentiment label. Because of the flexibility of our
framework, the generator could be a standard sequence-to-sequence (SEQ2SEQ)
model or a more complicated one such as a conditional variational
autoencoder-based SEQ2SEQ model. Experimental results using automatic and human
evaluation both demonstrate that our proposed framework is able to generate
both semantically reasonable and sentiment-controlled dialogue responses.


Re-examination of the Role of Latent Variables in Sequence Modeling

  With latent variables, stochastic recurrent models have achieved
state-of-the-art performance in modeling sound-wave sequence. However, opposite
results are also observed in other domains, where standard recurrent networks
often outperform stochastic models. To better understand this discrepancy, we
re-examine the roles of latent variables in stochastic recurrent models for
speech density estimation. Our analysis reveals that under the restriction of
fully factorized output distribution in previous evaluations, the stochastic
models were implicitly leveraging intra-step correlation but the standard
recurrent baselines were prohibited to do so, resulting in an unfair
comparison. To correct the unfairness, we remove such restriction in our
re-examination, where all the models can explicitly leverage intra-step
correlation with an auto-regressive structure. Over a diverse set of sequential
data, including human speech, MIDI music, handwriting trajectory and
frame-permuted speech, our results show that stochastic recurrent models fail
to exhibit any practical advantage despite the claimed theoretical superiority.
In contrast, standard recurrent models equipped with an auto-regressive output
distribution consistently perform better, significantly advancing the
state-of-the-art results on three speech datasets.


The ARIEL-CMU Systems for LoReHLT18

  This paper describes the ARIEL-CMU submissions to the Low Resource Human
Language Technologies (LoReHLT) 2018 evaluations for the tasks Machine
Translation (MT), Entity Discovery and Linking (EDL), and detection of
Situation Frames in Text and Speech (SF Text and Speech).


Implicit Kernel Learning

  Kernels are powerful and versatile tools in machine learning and statistics.
Although the notion of universal kernels and characteristic kernels has been
studied, kernel selection still greatly influences the empirical performance.
While learning the kernel in a data driven way has been investigated, in this
paper we explore learning the spectral distribution of kernel via implicit
generative models parametrized by deep neural networks. We called our method
Implicit Kernel Learning (IKL). The proposed framework is simple to train and
inference is performed via sampling random Fourier features. We investigate two
applications of the proposed IKL as examples, including generative adversarial
networks with MMD (MMD GAN) and standard supervised learning. Empirically, MMD
GAN with IKL outperforms vanilla predefined kernels on both image and text
generation benchmarks; using IKL with Random Kitchen Sinks also leads to
substantial improvement over existing state-of-the-art kernel learning
algorithms on popular supervised learning benchmarks. Theory and conditions for
using IKL in both applications are also studied as well as connections to
previous state-of-the-art methods.


A van der Waals pn heterojunction with organic/inorganic semiconductors

  van der Waals (vdW) heterojunctions formed by two-dimensional (2D) materials
have attracted tremendous attention due to their excellent electrical/optical
properties and device applications. However, current 2D heterojunctions are
largely limited to atomic crystals, and hybrid organic/inorganic structures are
rarely explored. Here, we fabricate hybrid 2D heterostructures with p-type
dioctylbenzothienobenzothiophene (C8-BTBT) and n-type MoS2. We find that
few-layer C8-BTBT molecular crystals can be grown on monolayer MoS2 by vdW
epitaxy, with pristine interface and controllable thickness down to monolayer.
The operation of the C8-BTBT/MoS2 vertical heterojunction devices is highly
tunable by bias and gate voltages between three different regimes: interfacial
recombination, tunneling and blocking. The pn junction shows diode-like
behavior with rectifying ratio up to 105 at the room temperature. Our devices
also exhibit photovoltaic responses with power conversion efficiency of 0.31%
and photoresponsivity of 22mA/W. With wide material combinations, such hybrid
2D structures will offer possibilities for opto-electronic devices that are not
possible from individual constituents.


Transformer-XL: Attentive Language Models Beyond a Fixed-Length Context

  Transformer networks have a potential of learning longer-term dependency, but
are limited by a fixed-length context in the setting of language modeling. As a
solution, we propose a novel neural architecture, Transformer-XL, that enables
Transformer to learn dependency beyond a fixed length without disrupting
temporal coherence. Concretely, it consists of a segment-level recurrence
mechanism and a novel positional encoding scheme. Our method not only enables
capturing longer-term dependency, but also resolves the problem of context
fragmentation. As a result, Transformer-XL learns dependency that is about 80%
longer than RNNs and 450% longer than vanilla Transformers, achieves better
performance on both short and long sequences, and is up to 1,800+ times faster
than vanilla Transformer during evaluation. Additionally, we improve the
state-of-the-art (SoTA) results of bpc/perplexity from 1.06 to 0.99 on enwiki8,
from 1.13 to 1.08 on text8, from 20.5 to 18.3 on WikiText-103, from 23.7 to
21.8 on One Billion Word, and from 55.3 to 54.5 on Penn Treebank (without
finetuning). Our code, pretrained models, and hyperparameters are available in
both Tensorflow and PyTorch.


Robust linear magnetoresistance in WTe2

  Unsaturated magnetoresistance (MR) has been reported in WTe2, and remains
irrepressible up to very high field. Intense optimization of the crystalline
quality causes a squarely-increasing MR, as interpreted by perfect compensation
of opposite carriers. Herein we report our observation of linear MR (LMR) in
WTe2 crystals, the onset of which is first identified by constructing the
mobility spectra of the MR at low fields. The LMR further intensifies and
predominates at fields higher than 20 Tesla while the parabolic MR gradually
decays. The LMR remains unsaturated up to a high field of 60 Tesla and
persists, even at a high pressure of 6.2 GPa. Assisted by density functional
theory calculations and detailed mobility spectra, we find the LMR to be robust
against the applications of high field, broken carrier balance, and mobility
suppression. Angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy reveals a unique
quasilinear energy dispersion near the Fermi level. Our results suggest that
the robust LMR is the low bound of the unsaturated MR in WTe2.


MMD GAN: Towards Deeper Understanding of Moment Matching Network

  Generative moment matching network (GMMN) is a deep generative model that
differs from Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) by replacing the
discriminator in GAN with a two-sample test based on kernel maximum mean
discrepancy (MMD). Although some theoretical guarantees of MMD have been
studied, the empirical performance of GMMN is still not as competitive as that
of GAN on challenging and large benchmark datasets. The computational
efficiency of GMMN is also less desirable in comparison with GAN, partially due
to its requirement for a rather large batch size during the training. In this
paper, we propose to improve both the model expressiveness of GMMN and its
computational efficiency by introducing adversarial kernel learning techniques,
as the replacement of a fixed Gaussian kernel in the original GMMN. The new
approach combines the key ideas in both GMMN and GAN, hence we name it MMD GAN.
The new distance measure in MMD GAN is a meaningful loss that enjoys the
advantage of weak topology and can be optimized via gradient descent with
relatively small batch sizes. In our evaluation on multiple benchmark datasets,
including MNIST, CIFAR- 10, CelebA and LSUN, the performance of MMD-GAN
significantly outperforms GMMN, and is competitive with other representative
GAN works.


Enhancing the magnetoelectric coupling of Co4Nb2O9[100] by substitution
  of Mg for Co

  We report experimental studies on enhancing the magnetoelectric (ME) coupling
of Co$_4$Nb$_2$O$_9$ by substitution of non-magnetic metal Mg for Co. A series
of single crystal Co$_{4-x}$Mg$_x$Nb$_2$O$_9$ (x=0, 1, 2, 3) with a
single-phase corundum-type structure are synthesized by the optical floating
zone method, and the good quality and crystallographic orientations of the
synthesized samples are confirmed by Laue spots and sharp XRD peaks. Although
the Neel temperature ($T_N$) of the Mg substituted crystals are slightly
decreased from 27 K for pure Co$_4$Nb$_2$O$_9$ to 19 K and 11 K for
Co$_3$MgNb$_2$O$_9$ and Co$_2$Mg$_2$Nb$_2$O$_9$, respectively, the ME coupling
is double enhanced by Mg substitution when x=1. For the magnetic field
(electric field) control of electric polarization (magnetization), the ME
coefficient $\alpha_{ME}$ of Co$_3$MgNb$_2$O$_9$ is measured to be 12.8 ps/m
(13.7 ps/m). These results indicate that the Mg substituted
Co$_{4-x}$Mg$_x$Nb$_2$O$_9$ (x=1) could serve as a potential material candidate
for applications in future logic spintronics and logic devices.


