Laser frequency offset locking via tripod-type electromagnetically
  induced transparency

  We have demonstrated the laser frequency offset locking via the Rb
tripod-type double dark resonances electromagnetically induced transparency
(EIT) system. The influence of coupling fields power and detuning on the
tripod-type EIT profile is detailed studied. In a wide coupling fields detuning
range, the narrower EIT dip has an ultranarrow linewidth of 590 KHz, which is
about one order narrower than the natural linewidth of Rb. Without the
additional frequency stabilization of the coupling lasers, we achieve the
relative frequency fluctuation of 60 KHz in a long time of ~2000s, which is
narrower than the short-time linewidth of each individual laser.


Realization of cavity linewidth narrowing via interacting dark
  resonances in a tripod-type electromagnetically induced transparency system

  Cavity linewidth narrowing via double-dark resonances has been experimentally
observed using the 87Rb Zeeman splitting sublevels. With the steep dispersion
led by the interacting dark resonances in the tripodtype electromagnetically
induced transparency system, we narrow the cavity linewidth to 250 KHz at room
temperature. Furthermore, the position of this ultranarrow cavity linewidth
could be tuned in a 60 MHz coupling field detuning range.


Observation of Multi-Electromagnetically Induced Transparency in V-type
  Rubidium atoms

  A detailed experimental investigation and theoretical analysis have been made
in the V-type 85Rb atomic medium. Seven induced transparency windows, including
a central double-peak-structure, have been observed experimentally when a
coupling field and a probe field are applied into the ground and first excited
states. By taking into account the hyperfine splitting of the excited state,
our theoretical analysis gives good explanation for the observed phenomena.


On Optimal Locally Repairable Codes with Super-Linear Length

  Locally repairable codes which are optimal with respect to the bound
presented by Prakash et al. are considered. New upper bounds on the length of
such optimal codes are derived. The new bounds both improve and generalize
previously known bounds. Optimal codes are constructed, whose length is
order-optimal when compared with the new upper bounds. The length of the codes
is super-linear in the alphabet size.


Plasmonic Tamm states: second enhancement of light inside the plasmonic
  waveguide

  A type of Tamm states inside metal-insulator-metal (MIM) waveguides is
proposed. An impedance based transfer matrix method is adopted to study and
optimize it. With the participation of the plasmonic Tamm states, fields could
be enhanced twice: the ffirst is due to the coupling between a normal waveguide
and a nanoscaled plasmonic waveguide and the second is due to the strong
localization and field enhancement of Tamm states. As shown in our 2D coupling
configuration, |E|^2 is enhanced up to 1050 times when 1550 nm light is coupled
from an 300 nm Si slab waveguide into an 40 nm MIM waveguide.


An entropic fourier method for the Boltzmann equation

  We propose an entropic Fourier method for the numerical discretization of the
Boltzmann collision operator. The method, which is obtained by modifying a
Fourier Galerkin method to match the form of the discrete velocity method, can
be viewed both as a discrete velocity method and as a Fourier method. As a
discrete velocity method, it preserves the positivity of the solution and
satisfies a discrete version of the H-theorem. As a Fourier method, it allows
one to readily apply the FFT-based fast algorithms. A second-order convergence
rate is validated by numerical experiments


Accelerated Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy with Vandermonde
  Factorization

  Multi-dimensional magnetic resonance spectroscopy is an important tool for
studying molecular structures, interactions and dynamics in bio-engineering.
The data acquisition time, however, is relatively long and non-uniform sampling
can be applied to reduce this time. To obtain the full spectrum,a
reconstruction method with Vandermonde factorization is proposed.This method
explores the general signal property in magnetic resonance spectroscopy: Its
time domain signal is approximated by a sum of a few exponentials. Results on
synthetic and realistic data show that the new approach can achieve faithful
spectrum reconstruction and outperforms state-of-the-art low rank Hankel matrix
method.


Dislocations and the enhancement of superconductivity in odd-parity
  superconductor Sr$_2$RuO$_4$

  We report observation of the enhancement of superconductivity near lattice
dislocations and the absence of the strengthening of vortex pinning in
odd-parity superconductor Sr$_2$RuO$_4$, both surprising results in direct
contrast to the well known sensitivity of superconductivity in Sr$_2$RuO$_4$ to
disorder. The enhanced superconductivity appears to be related fundamentally to
the two-component nature of the superconducting order parameter, as revealed in
our phenomenological theory taking into account the effect of symmetry
reduction near a dislocation.


$Z'$ Phenomenology: A Model-independent Analysis and Fit in Combination
  of Chiral Effective Theory and Anomaly Cancellation

  To investigate $Z'$ phenomenology model-independent, we combine chiral
effective theory with anomaly cancellation conditions without any other model
input. We focus on $Z'$ mixings with $\gamma-Z$ in both mass and kinetic parts
and calculate contributions to oblique $S,T,U$. The three sets of anomaly-free
fermion $U(1)'$ charges parameterize the $Z'$ interactions with fermions. The
cancellation of the $[U(1)']^3$ anomaly and mixing gravitational-gauge anomaly
determines the number of right-handed neutrinos. We also find a novel relation
between the charge assignments and Stueckelberg coupling in terms of the
renormalized electromagnetic current. A global fit to the electroweak precise
observables shows that typical values for the mixing parameters are of order
$10^{-3}$. In spite of this strict limit, we obtain a negative $S$ parameter
contribution.


Tunable frequency reference by optical pumping-assisted intracavity
  V-type electromagnetically induced transparency

  A tunable high resolution frequency reference is constructed using the
narrowed cavity-linewidth by the optical pumping-assisted V-type
electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). At room temperature, the
optical pumping effect will increase the transparency for the V-type EIT and
therefore the cavity-linewidth can be narrowed apparently. For the seven EITs
observed in our previous study, cavity-linewidth narrowing is observed in all
of them. More importantly, we find that the cavity-linewidth can keep at 1.2MHz
in a wide frequency range of 100MHz by utilizing the central EIT. This property
provides a novel way for constructing high resolution tunable frequency
reference via the intracavity EIT.


Majoranas in Noisy Kitaev Wires

  Robustness of edge states and non-Abelian excitations of topological states
of matter promises quantum memory and quantum processing, which is naturally
immune against microscopic imperfections such as static disorder. However,
topological properties will not in general protect quantum system from
time-dependent disorder or noise. Here we take the example of a network of
Kitaev wires with Majorana edge modes storing qubits to investigate the effects
of classical noise in the crossover from the quasi-static to the fast
fluctuation regime. We present detailed results for the Majorana edge
correlations, and fidelity of braiding operations for both global and local
noise sources preserving parity symmetry, such as random chemical potentials
and phase fluctuations. While in general noise will induce heating and
dephasing, we identify examples of long-lived quantum correlations in presence
of fast noise due to motional narrowing, where external noise drives the system
rapidly between the topological and non-topological phases.


Structural and metal-insulator transitions in ionic liquid-gated
  Ca3Ru2O7 surface

  We report the fabrication and measurements of ionic liquid gated Hall bar
devices prepared on thin Ca$_3$Ru$_2$O$_7$ flakes exfoliated from bulk single
crystals that were grown by a floating zone method. Two types of devices with
their electrical transport properties dominated by $c$-axis transport in Type A
or that of the in-plane in Type B devices, were prepared. Bulk physical
phenomena, including a magnetic transition near 56 K, a structural and
metal-insulator transition at a slightly lower temperature, as well as the
emergence of a highly unusual metallic state as the temperature is further
lowered, were found in both types of devices. However, the Shubnikov-de Haas
oscillations were found in Type A but not Type B devices, most likely due to
enhanced disorder on the flake surface. Finally, the ionic liquid gating of a
Type B device revealed a shift in critical temperature of the structural and
metal-insulator transitions, suggesting that such transitions can be tuned by
the electric field effect.


Magnetoresistance oscillations and the half-flux-quantum state in
  spin-triplet superconductor Sr2RuO4

  We report results of our low-temperature magneto electric transport
measurements on micron-sized short cylinders of odd-parity, spin-triplet
superconductor Sr$_2$RuO$_4$ with the cylinder axis along the $c$ axis. The
in-plane magnetic field and measurement current dependent magnetoresistance
oscillations were found to feature an amplitude much larger than that expected
from the conventional Little-Parks effect, suggesting that the
magnetoresistance oscillations originate from vortex crossing. The free-energy
barrier that controls the vortex crossing was modulated by the magnetic flux
enclosed in the cylinder, the in-plane field, measurement current, and
structural factors. Distinct features on magnetoresistance peaks were found,
which we argue to be related to the emergence of half-flux quantum states, but
only in samples for which the vortex crossing is confined at specific parts of
the sample.


Peak-Aware Online Economic Dispatching for Microgrids

  By employing local renewable energy sources and power generation units while
connected to the central grid, microgrid can usher in great benefits in terms
of cost efficiency, power reliability, and environmental awareness. Economic
dispatching is a central problem in microgrid operation, which aims at
effectively scheduling various energy sources to minimize the operating cost
while satisfying the electricity demand. Designing intelligent economic
dispatching strategies for microgrids, however, is drastically different from
that for conventional central grids, due to two unique challenges. First, the
erratic renewable energy emphasizes the need for online algorithms. Second, the
widely-adopted peak-based pricing scheme brings out the need for new peak-aware
strategy design. In this paper, we tackle these critical challenges and devise
peak-aware online economic dispatching algorithms. For microgrids with
fast-responding generators, we prove that our deterministic and randomized
algorithms achieve the best possible competitive ratios $2-\beta$ and
$e/(e-1+\beta)$, respectively, where $\beta\in[0,1]$ is the ratio between the
minimum grid spot price and the local-generation price. Our results
characterize the fundamental \emph{price of uncertainty} of the problem. For
microgrids with slow-responding generators, we first show that a large
competitive ratio is inevitable. Then we leverage limited prediction of
electricity demand and renewable generation to improve the competitiveness of
the algorithms. By extensive empirical evaluations using real-world traces, we
show that our online algorithms achieve near offline-optimal performance. In a
representative scenario, our algorithm achieves $17.5\%$ and $9.24\%$ cost
reduction as compared to the case without local generation units and the case
using peak-oblivious algorithms, respectively.


Unconventional quantum oscillations in mesoscopic rings of spin-triplet
  superconductor Sr2RuO4

  Odd-parity, spin-triplet superconductor Sr2RuO4 has been found to feature
exotic vortex physics including half-flux quanta trapped in a doubly connected
sample and the formation of vortex lattices at low fields. The consequences of
these vortex states on the low-temperature magnetoresistive behavior of
mesoscopic samples of Sr2RuO4 were investigated in this work using ring device
fabricated on mechanically exfoliated single crystals of Sr2RuO4 by
photolithography and focused ion beam. With the magnetic field applied
perpendicular to the in-plane direction, thin-wall rings of Sr2RuO4 were found
to exhibit pronounced quantum oscillations with a conventional period of the
full-flux quantum even though the unexpectedly large amplitude and the number
of oscillations suggest the observation of vortex-flow-dominated
magnetoresistance oscillations rather than a conventional Little-Parks effect.
For rings with a thick wall, two distinct periods of quantum oscillations were
found in high and low field regimes, respectively, which we argue to be
associated with the "lock-in" of a vortex lattice in these thick-wall rings. No
evidence for half-flux-quantum resistance oscillations were identified in any
sample measured so far without the presence of an in-plane field.


Utilizing RNA-Seq Data for Cancer Network Inference

  An important challenge in cancer systems biology is to uncover the complex
network of interactions between genes (tumor suppressor genes and oncogenes)
implicated in cancer. Next generation sequencing provides unparalleled ability
to probe the expression levels of the entire set of cancer genes and their
transcript isoforms. However, there are onerous statistical and computational
issues in interpreting high-dimensional sequencing data and inferring the
underlying genetic network. In this study, we analyzed RNA-Seq data from
lymphoblastoid cell lines derived from a population of 69 human individuals and
implemented a probabilistic framework to construct biologically-relevant
genetic networks. In particular, we employed a graphical lasso analysis,
motivated by considerations of the maximum entropy formalism, to estimate the
sparse inverse covariance matrix of RNA-Seq data. Gene ontology, pathway
enrichment and protein-protein path length analysis were all carried out to
validate the biological context of the predicted network of interacting cancer
gene isoforms.


Boron Nitride Nanosheet Veiled Gold Nanoparticles for Surface Enhanced
  Raman Scattering

  Atomically thin boron nitride (BN) nanosheets have many properties desirable
for surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS). BN nanosheets have a strong
surface adsorption capability towards airborne hydrocarbon and aromatic
molecules. For maximized adsorption area and hence SERS sensitivity, atomically
thin BN nanosheet covered gold nanoparticles have been prepared for the first
time. When placed on top of metal nanoparticles, atomically thin BN nanosheets
closely follow their contours so that the plasmonic hot spots are retained.
Electrically insulating BN nanosheets also act as a barrier layer to eliminate
metal-induced disturbance in SERS. Moreover, the SERS substrates veiled by BN
nanosheets show an outstanding reusability in the long term. As the result, the
sensitivity, reproducibility and reusability of SERS substrates can be greatly
improved. We also demonstrate that large BN nanosheets produced by chemical
vapor deposition can be used to scale up the proposed SERS substrate for
practical application.


Diquark mass differences from unquenched lattice QCD

  We calculate diquark correlation functions in the Landau gauge on the lattice
using overlap valence quarks and 2+1-flavor domain wall fermion configurations.
Quark masses are extracted from the scalar part of quark propagators in the
Landau gauge. Scalar diquark quark mass difference and axial vector scalar
diquark mass difference are obtained for diquarks composed of two light quarks
and of a strange and a light quark. Light sea quark mass dependence of the
results is examined. Two lattice spacings are used to check the discretization
effects. The coarse and fine lattices are of sizes $24^3\times64$ and
$32^3\times64$ with inverse spacings $1/a=1.75(4) {\rm~GeV}$ and $2.33(5)
{\rm~GeV}$, respectively.


Hankel Matrix Nuclear Norm Regularized Tensor Completion for
  $N$-dimensional Exponential Signals

  Signals are generally modeled as a superposition of exponential functions in
spectroscopy of chemistry, biology and medical imaging. For fast data
acquisition or other inevitable reasons, however, only a small amount of
samples may be acquired and thus how to recover the full signal becomes an
active research topic. But existing approaches can not efficiently recover
$N$-dimensional exponential signals with $N\geq 3$. In this paper, we study the
problem of recovering N-dimensional (particularly $N\geq 3$) exponential
signals from partial observations, and formulate this problem as a low-rank
tensor completion problem with exponential factor vectors. The full signal is
reconstructed by simultaneously exploiting the CANDECOMP/PARAFAC structure and
the exponential structure of the associated factor vectors. The latter is
promoted by minimizing an objective function involving the nuclear norm of
Hankel matrices. Experimental results on simulated and real magnetic resonance
spectroscopy data show that the proposed approach can successfully recover full
signals from very limited samples and is robust to the estimated tensor rank.


A centrosymmetric hexagonal magnet with superstable biskyrmion magnetic
  nanodomains in a wide temperature range of 100K to 340K

  Here, we report on the experimental discovery of biskyrmion magnetic
nanodomains at RT and the observation of a biskyrmion-derived topological Hall
effect (THE) in the centrosymmetric hexagonal MnNiGa magnet. Using a phase
reconstruction technique based on a transport-of-intensity equation (TIE), we
established the texture of the biskyrmion spin. Results from Lorentz
transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and the topological Hall effect revealed
that the biskyrmion phase is stable over a much wider temperature range (100 K
to ~340K) and a larger magnetic field range in our material than in
skyrmion-hosting bulk crystals reported previously[1-3,6]. The super-wide
operating temperature and the broad range of material options indicate
important progress toward the realization of skyrmion-based spintronic devices.


Boron Nitride Nanosheets Improve Sensitivity and Reusability of Surface
  Enhanced Raman Spectroscopy

  Surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) is a useful multidisciplinary
analytic technique. However, it is still a challenge to produce SERS substrates
that are highly sensitive, reproducible, stable, reusable, and scalable. Here,
we demonstrate that atomically thin boron nitride (BN) nanosheets have many
unique and desirable properties to help solve this challenge. The synergic
effect of the atomic thickness, high flexibility, stronger surface adsorption
capability, electrical insulation, impermeability, high thermal and chemical
stability of BN nanosheets can increase the Raman sensitivity by up to two
orders, and in the meantime attain long-term stability and extraordinary
reusability not achievable by other materials. These advances will greatly
facilitate the wider use of SERS in many fields.


Product-based Neural Networks for User Response Prediction

  Predicting user responses, such as clicks and conversions, is of great
importance and has found its usage in many Web applications including
recommender systems, web search and online advertising. The data in those
applications is mostly categorical and contains multiple fields; a typical
representation is to transform it into a high-dimensional sparse binary feature
representation via one-hot encoding. Facing with the extreme sparsity,
traditional models may limit their capacity of mining shallow patterns from the
data, i.e. low-order feature combinations. Deep models like deep neural
networks, on the other hand, cannot be directly applied for the
high-dimensional input because of the huge feature space. In this paper, we
propose a Product-based Neural Networks (PNN) with an embedding layer to learn
a distributed representation of the categorical data, a product layer to
capture interactive patterns between inter-field categories, and further fully
connected layers to explore high-order feature interactions. Our experimental
results on two large-scale real-world ad click datasets demonstrate that PNNs
consistently outperform the state-of-the-art models on various metrics.


Molecule-Induced Conformational Change in Boron Nitride Nanosheets with
  Enhanced Surface Adsorption

  Surface interaction is extremely important to both fundamental research and
practical application. Physisorption can induce shape and structural distortion
(i.e. conformational changes) in macromolecular and biomolecular adsorbates,
but such phenomenon has rarely been observed on adsorbents. Here, we
demonstrate theoretically and experimentally that atomically thin boron nitride
(BN) nanosheets as an adsorbent experience conformational changes upon surface
adsorption of molecules, increasing adsorption energy and efficiency. The study
not only provides new perspectives on the strong adsorption capability of BN
nanosheets and many other two-dimensional nanomaterials but also opens up
possibilities for many novel applications. For example, we demonstrate that BN
nanosheets with the same surface area as bulk hBN particles are more effective
in purification and sensing.


Quark chiral condensate from the overlap quark propagator

  From the overlap lattice quark propagator calculated in the Landau gauge, we
determine the quark chiral condensate by fitting operator product expansion
formulas to the lattice data. The quark propagators are computed on domain wall
fermion configurations generated by the RBC-UKQCD Collaborations with $N_f=2+1$
flavors. Three ensembles with different light sea quark masses are used at one
lattice spacing $1/a=1.75(4)$ GeV. We obtain
$\langle\bar\psi\psi\rangle^{\overline{\rm MS}}(2\mbox{
GeV})=(-305(15)(21)\mbox{ MeV})^3$ in the SU(2) chiral limit.


RI/MOM and RI/SMOM renormalization of overlap quark bilinears on domain
  wall fermion configurations

  Renormalization constants (RCs) of overlap quark bilinear operators on
2+1-flavor domain wall fermion configurations are calculated by using the
RI/MOM and RI/SMOM schemes. The scale independent RC for the axial vector
current is computed by using a Ward identity. Then the RCs for the quark field
and the vector, tensor, scalar and pseudoscalar operators are calculated in
both the RI/MOM and RI/SMOM schemes. The RCs are converted to the
$\overline{\rm MS}$ scheme and we compare the numerical results from using the
two intermediate schemes. The lattice size is $48^3\times96$ and the inverse
spacing $1/a = 1.730(4) {\rm~GeV}$.


Hunting micrometer-sized graphene flakes on gold substrate

  Gold is widely used as the substrate material in many graphene devices, due
to its superior optoelectronic properties and chemical stability. However,
there has been little experimental investigation on the optical contrast of
graphene films on Au substrates. Here we report accurate measurement of the
optical contrast spectra of few-layer graphene flakes on bulk Au. We used a
high-resolution optical microscopy with a 100x magnification objective,
accurately determining the thickness of flakes as small as one micrometer in
lateral size, which are highly desired in many applications. The results are in
excellent agreement with theoretical calculations and confirmed by Raman and
AFM measurements. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the optical contrast
spectroscopy is sensitive enough to detect the adsorption of a sub-monolayer
airborne hydrocarbon molecules, which can reveal whether graphene is
con-taminated and opens the opportunity to develop miniaturized and
ultrasensitive molecular sensors.


Medical Concept Embedding with Time-Aware Attention

  Embeddings of medical concepts such as medication, procedure and diagnosis
codes in Electronic Medical Records (EMRs) are central to healthcare analytics.
Previous work on medical concept embedding takes medical concepts and EMRs as
words and documents respectively. Nevertheless, such models miss out the
temporal nature of EMR data. On the one hand, two consecutive medical concepts
do not indicate they are temporally close, but the correlations between them
can be revealed by the time gap. On the other hand, the temporal scopes of
medical concepts often vary greatly (e.g., \textit{common cold} and
\textit{diabetes}). In this paper, we propose to incorporate the temporal
information to embed medical codes. Based on the Continuous Bag-of-Words model,
we employ the attention mechanism to learn a "soft" time-aware context window
for each medical concept. Experiments on public and proprietary datasets
through clustering and nearest neighbour search tasks demonstrate the
effectiveness of our model, showing that it outperforms five state-of-the-art
baselines.


Vandermonde Factorization of Hankel Matrix for Complex Exponential
  Signal Recovery -- Application in Fast NMR Spectroscopy

  Many signals are modeled as a superposition of exponential functions in
spectroscopy of chemistry, biology and medical imaging. This paper studies the
problem of recovering exponential signals from a random subset of samples. We
exploit the Vandermonde structure of the Hankel matrix formed by the
exponential signal and formulate signal recovery as Hankel matrix completion
with Vandermonde factorization (HVaF). A numerical algorithm is developed to
solve the proposed model and its sequence convergence is analyzed
theoretically. Experiments on synthetic data demonstrate that HVaF succeeds
over a wider regime than the state-of-the-art nuclear-normminimization-based
Hankel matrix completion method, while has a less restriction on frequency
separation than the state-of-the-art atomic norm minimization and fast
iterative hard thresholding methods. The effectiveness of HVaF is further
validated on biological magnetic resonance spectroscopy data.


Phase-mediated magnon chaos-order transition in cavity optomagnonics

  Magnon as a quantized spin wave has attracted extensive attentions in various
fields of physics, such as magnon spintronics, microwave photonics, and cavity
quantum electrodynamics. Here, we explore theoretically magnon chaos-order
transition in cavity optomagnonics, which is still remains largely unexplored
in this emerging field. We find that the evolution of the magnon experiences
the transition from order to period-doubling bifurcation and finally enter
chaos by adjusting the microwave driving power. Different from the normal
chaos, the magnon chaos-order transition proposed here is phase-mediated.
Beyond their fundamental scientific significance, our results will contribute
to the comprehending of nonlinear phenomena and chaos in optomagnonical system,
and may find applications in chaos-based secure communication.


SingleGAN: Image-to-Image Translation by a Single-Generator Network
  using Multiple Generative Adversarial Learning

  Image translation is a burgeoning field in computer vision where the goal is
to learn the mapping between an input image and an output image. However, most
recent methods require multiple generators for modeling different domain
mappings, which are inefficient and ineffective on some multi-domain image
translation tasks. In this paper, we propose a novel method, SingleGAN, to
perform multi-domain image-to-image translations with a single generator. We
introduce the domain code to explicitly control the different generative tasks
and integrate multiple optimization goals to ensure the translation.
Experimental results on several unpaired datasets show superior performance of
our model in translation between two domains. Besides, we explore variants of
SingleGAN for different tasks, including one-to-many domain translation,
many-to-many domain translation and one-to-one domain translation with
multimodality. The extended experiments show the universality and extensibility
of our model.


Learning of Content Knowledge and Development of Scientific Reasoning
  Ability: A Cross Culture Comparison

  Student content knowledge and general reasoning abilities are two important
areas in education practice and research. However, there hasn't been much work
in physics education that clearly documents the possible interactions between
content learning and the development of general reasoning abilities. In this
paper, we report one study of a systematic research to investigate the possible
interactions between students' learning of physics content knowledge and the
development of general scientific reasoning abilities. Specifically, this study
seeks to answer the research question of whether and to what extent content
learning may affect the development of general reasoning abilities. College
entrance testing data of freshman college students in both USA and China were
collected using three standardized tests, FCI, BEMA, and Lawson's Classroom
Test of Scientific Reasoning (Lawson Test). The results suggest that years of
rigorous training of physics knowledge in middle and high schools have made
significant impact on Chinese students' ability in solving physics problems,
while such training doesn't seem to have direct effects on their general
ability in scientific reasoning, which was measured to be at the same level as
that of the students in USA. Details of the curriculum structures in the
education systems of USA and China are also compared to provide a basis for
interpreting the assessment data.


Boron Nitride Nanosheets as Improved and Reusable Substrates for Gold
  Nanoparticles Enabled Surface Enhanced Raman Spectroscopy

  Atomically thin boron nitride (BN) nanosheets have been found an excellent
substrate for noble metal particles enabled surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy
(SERS), thanks to their good adsorption of aromatic molecules, high thermal
stability and weak Raman scattering. Faceted gold (Au) nanoparticles have been
synthesized on BN nanosheets by a simple but controllable and reproducible
sputtering and annealing method. The size and density of the Au particles can
be controlled by sputtering time, current and annealing temperature etc. Under
the same sputtering and annealing conditions, the Au particles on BN of
different thicknesses show various sizes because the surface diffusion
coefficients of Au depends on the thickness of BN. Intriguingly, decorated with
similar morphology and distribution of Au particles, BN nanosheets exhibit
better Raman enhancements than silicon substrate as well as bulk BN crystals.
Additionally, BN nanosheets show no noticeable SERS signal and hence cause no
interference to the Raman signal of analyte. The Au/BN substrates can be reused
by heating in air to remove adsorbed analyte without loss of SERS enhancement.


Local noncentrosymmetricity and possible spin-momentum locking in
  Sr$_3$Ru$_2$O$_7$

  Strong spin-orbital coupling (SOC) was found previously to lead to dramatic
effects in quantum materials, such as those found in topological insulators. It
was shown theoretically that local noncentrosymmetricity resulting from the
rotation of RuO$_6$ octahedral in Sr$_3$Ru$_2$O$_7$ will also give rise to an
effective SOC\cite{SocSr327,MicroscopicnematicSr327}. In the presence of a
magnetic field applied along a specific in-plane direction, the Fermi surface
was predicted to undergo a reconstruction. Here we report results of our
in-plane magnetoresistivity and magnetothermopower measurements on single
crystals of Sr$_3$Ru$_2$O$_7$ with an electrical or a thermal current applied
along specific crystalline directions and a magnetic field rotating in the $ab$
plane (Fig. 1a), showing a minimal value for field directions predicted by the
local noncentrosymmetricity theory. Furthermore, the thermopower, and
therefore, the electron entropy, were found to be suppressed as the field was
applied perpendicular to the thermal current, which suggests that the spin and
the momentum in Sr$_3$Ru$_2$O$_7$ are locked over substantial parts of the
Fermi surface, likely originating from local noncentrosymmetricity as well.


Social contagions on time-varying community networks

  Time-varying community structures widely exist in various real-world
networks. However, the spreading dynamics on this kind of network has not been
fully studied. To this end, we systematically study the effects of time-varying
community structures on social contagions. We first propose a non-Markovian
social contagion model on time-varying community networks based on the activity
driven network model, in which an individual adopts a behavior if and only if
the accumulated behavioral information it has ever received reaches a
threshold. Then, we develop a mean-field theory to describe the proposed model.
From theoretical analyses and numerical simulations, we find that behavior
adoption in the social contagions exhibits a hierarchical feature, i.e., the
behavior first quickly spreads in one of the communities, and then outbreaks in
the other. Moreover, under different behavioral information transmission rates,
the final behavior adoption proportion in the whole network versus the
community strength shows one of the patterns, which are a monotone increasing
pattern, a non-monotonic changing pattern, and a monotone decreasing pattern.
An optimal community strength maximizing the final behavior adoption can be
found in a suitable range of behavioral information transmission rate. Finally,
for a given average degree, increasing the number of edges generated by active
nodes is more beneficial to the social contagions than increasing the average
activity potential.


Existence of electron and hole pockets and partial gap opening in the
  correlated semimetal Ca3Ru2O7

  The electronic band structure of correlated Ca3Ru2O7 featuring an
antiferromagnetic as well as a structural transition has been determined
theoretically at high temperatures, which has led to the understanding of the
remarkable properties of Ca3Ru2O7 such as the bulk spin valve effects. However,
its band structure and Fermi surface (FS) below the structural transition have
not been resolved even though a FS consisting of electron pockets was found
experimentally. Here we report magneto electrical transport and thermoelectric
measurements with the electric current and temper- ature gradient directed
along a and b axes of an untwined single crystal of Ca3Ru2O7 respectively. The
thermopower obtained along the two crystal axes were found to show opposite
signs at low temperatures, demonstrating the presence of both electron and hole
pockets on the FS. In addition, how the FS evolves across T* = 30 K at which a
distinct transition from coherent to incoherent behavior occurs was also
inferred - the Hall and Nernst coefficient results suggest a temperature and
momentum dependent partial gap opening in Ca3Ru2O7 below the structural
transition, with a pos- sible Lifshitz transition occurring at T*. The
experimental demonstration of a correlated semimetal ground state in Ca3Ru2O7
calls for further theoretical studies of this remarkable material.


Theoretical investigation of a spectrally pure-state generation from
  isomorphs of KDP crystal at near-infrared and telecom wavelengths

  Spectrally uncorrelated biphoton state generated from the spontaneous
nonlinear optical process is an important resource for quantum information.
Currently such spectrally uncorrelated biphoton state can only be prepared from
limited kinds of nonlinear media, thus limiting their wavelengths. In order to
explore wider wavelength range, here we theoretically study the generation of
spectrally uncorrelated biphoton state from 14 isomorphs of potassium
dihydrogen phosphate (KDP) crystal. We find that 11 crystals from the `KDP
family' still maintain similar nonlinear optical properties of KDP, such as
KDP, DKDP, ADP, DADP, ADA, DADA, RDA, DRDA, RDP, DRDP and KDA, which satisfy 3
kinds of the group-velocity matching conditions for spectrally uncorrelated
biphoton state generation from near-infrared to telecom wavelengths. Based on
the uncorrelated biphoton state, we investigate the generation of heralded
pure-state single photon by detecting one member of the biphoton state to
herald the output of the other. The purity of the heralded single photon is as
high as 0.98 without using a narrow-band filter; the Hong-Ou-Mandel
interference from independent sources can also achieve a visibility of 98%.
This study may provide more and better single-photon sources for quantum
information processing at near-infrared and telecom wavelengths.


Quantifying Inactive Lithium in Lithium Metal Batteries

  Inactive lithium (Li) formation is the immediate cause of capacity loss and
catastrophic failure of Li metal batteries. However, the chemical component and
the atomic level structure of inactive Li have rarely been studied due to the
lack of effective diagnosis tools to accurately differentiate and quantify Li+
in solid electrolyte interphase (SEI) components and the electrically isolated
unreacted metallic Li0, which together comprise the inactive Li. Here, by
introducing a new analytical method, Titration Gas Chromatography (TGC), we can
accurately quantify the contribution from metallic Li0 to the total amount of
inactive Li. We uncover that the Li0, rather than the electrochemically formed
SEI, dominates the inactive Li and capacity loss. Using cryogenic electron
microscopies to further study the microstructure and nanostructure of inactive
Li, we find that the Li0 is surrounded by insulating SEI, losing the electronic
conductive pathway to the bulk electrode. Coupling the measurements of the Li0
global content to observations of its local atomic structure, we reveal the
formation mechanism of inactive Li in different types of electrolytes, and
identify the true underlying cause of low Coulombic efficiency in Li metal
deposition and stripping. We ultimately propose strategies to enable the highly
efficient Li deposition and stripping to enable Li metal anode for next
generation high energy batteries.


High thermal conductivity of high-quality monolayer boron nitride and
  its thermal expansion

  Heat management becomes more and more critical, especially in miniaturized
modern devices, so the exploration of highly thermally conductive materials
with electrical insulation and favorable mechanical properties is of great
importance. Here, we report that high-quality monolayer boron nitride (BN) has
a thermal conductivity (\k{appa}) of 751 W/mK at room temperature. Though
smaller than that of graphene, this value is larger than that of cubic boron
nitride (cBN) and only second to those of diamond and lately discovered cubic
boron arsenide (BAs). Monolayer BN has the second largest \k{appa} per unit
weight among all semiconductors and insulators, just behind diamond, if density
is considered. The \k{appa} of atomically thin BN decreases with increased
thickness. Our large-scale molecular dynamic simulations using Green-Kubo
formalism accurately reproduce this trend, and the density functional theory
(DFT) calculations reveal the main scattering mechanism. The thermal expansion
coefficients (TECs) of monolayer to trilayer BN at 300-400 K are also
experimentally measured, and the results are comparable to atomistic ab initio
DFT calculations in a wider range of temperatures. Thanks to its wide bandgap,
high thermal conductivity, outstanding strength, good flexibility, and
excellent thermal and chemical stability, atomically thin BN is a strong
candidate for heat dissipation applications, especially in the next generation
of flexible electronic devices.


Commissioning of te China-ADS injector-I testing facility

  The 10 MeV accelerator-driven subcritical system (ADS) Injector-I test stand
at Institute of High Energy Physics (IHEP) is a testing facility dedicated to
demonstrate one of the two injector design schemes [Injector Scheme-I, which
works at 325 MHz], for the ADS project in China. The Injector adopted a four
vane copper structure RFQ with output energy of 3.2 MeV and a superconducting
(SC) section accommodating fourteen \b{eta}g=0.12 single spoke cavities,
fourteen SC solenoids and fourteen cold BPMs. The ion source was installed
since April of 2014, periods of commissioning are regularly scheduled between
installation phases of the rest of the injector. Continuous wave (CW) beam was
shooting through the injector and 10 MeV CW proton beam with average beam
current around 2 mA was obtained recently. This contribution describe the
results achieved so far and the difficulties encountered in CW commissioning.


M2Det: A Single-Shot Object Detector based on Multi-Level Feature
  Pyramid Network

  Feature pyramids are widely exploited by both the state-of-the-art one-stage
object detectors (e.g., DSSD, RetinaNet, RefineDet) and the two-stage object
detectors (e.g., Mask R-CNN, DetNet) to alleviate the problem arising from
scale variation across object instances. Although these object detectors with
feature pyramids achieve encouraging results, they have some limitations due to
that they only simply construct the feature pyramid according to the inherent
multi-scale, pyramidal architecture of the backbones which are actually
designed for object classification task. Newly, in this work, we present a
method called Multi-Level Feature Pyramid Network (MLFPN) to construct more
effective feature pyramids for detecting objects of different scales. First, we
fuse multi-level features (i.e. multiple layers) extracted by backbone as the
base feature. Second, we feed the base feature into a block of alternating
joint Thinned U-shape Modules and Feature Fusion Modules and exploit the
decoder layers of each u-shape module as the features for detecting objects.
Finally, we gather up the decoder layers with equivalent scales (sizes) to
develop a feature pyramid for object detection, in which every feature map
consists of the layers (features) from multiple levels. To evaluate the
effectiveness of the proposed MLFPN, we design and train a powerful end-to-end
one-stage object detector we call M2Det by integrating it into the architecture
of SSD, which gets better detection performance than state-of-the-art one-stage
detectors. Specifically, on MS-COCO benchmark, M2Det achieves AP of 41.0 at
speed of 11.8 FPS with single-scale inference strategy and AP of 44.2 with
multi-scale inference strategy, which is the new state-of-the-art results among
one-stage detectors. The code will be made available on
\url{https://github.com/qijiezhao/M2Det.


Disappearance of Superconductivity and a Concomitant Lifshitz Transition
  in Heavily-Overdoped Bi2Sr2CuO6 Superconductor Revealed by Angle-Resolved
  Photoemission Spectroscopy

  By partially doping Pb to effectively suppress the superstructure in
single-layered cuprate Bi2Sr2CuO6+{\delta}(Pb-Bi2201) and annealing them in
vacuum or in high pressure oxygen atmosphere, a series of high quality
Pb-Bi2201 single crystals are obtained with Tc covering from 17 K to
non-supercondcuting in the overdoped region. High resolution angle resolved
photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) measurements are carried out on these
samples to investigate the evolution of the Fermi surface topology with doping
in the normal state. Clear and complete Fermi surface are observed and
quantitatively analyzed in all these overdoped Pb-Bi2201 samples. A Lifshitz
transition from hole-like Fermi surface to electron like Fermi surface with
increasing doping is observed at a doping level of ~0.35. This transition
coincides with the change that the sample undergoes from superconducting to
non-superconducting states. Our results reveal the emergence of an
electron-like Fermi surface and the existence of a Lifshitz transition in
heavily overdoped Bi2201 samples. They provide important information in
understanding the connection between the disappearance of superconductivity and
the Lifshitz transition in the overdoped region.


Emergence of Superconductivity from Fully Incoherent Normal State in an
  Iron-Based Superconductor (Ba$_{0.6}$K$_{0.4}$)Fe$_2$As$_2$

  In unconventional superconductors, it is generally believed that
understanding the physical properties of the normal state is a pre-requisite
for understanding the superconductivity mechanism. In conventional
superconductors like niobium or lead, the normal state is a Fermi liquid with a
well-defined Fermi surface and well-defined quasipartcles along the Fermi
surface. Superconductivity is realized in this case by the Fermi surface
instability in the superconducting state and the formation and condensation of
the electron pairs (Cooper pairing). The high temperature cuprate
superconductors, on the other hand, represent another extreme case that
superconductivity can be realized in the underdoped region where there is
neither well-defined Fermi surface due to the pseudogap formation nor
quasiparticles near the antinodal regions in the normal state. Here we report a
novel scenario that superconductivity is realized in a system with well-defined
Fermi surface but without quasiparticles along the Fermi surface in the normal
state. High resolution laser-based angle-resolved photoemission measurements
have been performed on an optimally-doped iron-based superconductor
(Ba$_{0.6}$K$_{0.4}$)Fe$_2$As$_2$. We find that, while sharp superconducting
coherence peaks emerge in the superconducting state on the hole-like Fermi
surface sheets, no quasiparticle peak is present in the normal state. Its
electronic behaviours deviate strongly from a Fermi liquid system. The
superconducting gap of such a system exhibits an unusual temperature dependence
that it is nearly a constant in the superconducting state and abruptly closes
at T$_c$. These observations have provided a new platform to study
unconventional superconductivity in a non-Fermi liquid system.


The DESI Experiment Part I: Science,Targeting, and Survey Design

  DESI (Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument) is a Stage IV ground-based dark
energy experiment that will study baryon acoustic oscillations (BAO) and the
growth of structure through redshift-space distortions with a wide-area galaxy
and quasar redshift survey. To trace the underlying dark matter distribution,
spectroscopic targets will be selected in four classes from imaging data. We
will measure luminous red galaxies up to $z=1.0$. To probe the Universe out to
even higher redshift, DESI will target bright [O II] emission line galaxies up
to $z=1.7$. Quasars will be targeted both as direct tracers of the underlying
dark matter distribution and, at higher redshifts ($ 2.1 < z < 3.5$), for the
Ly-$\alpha$ forest absorption features in their spectra, which will be used to
trace the distribution of neutral hydrogen. When moonlight prevents efficient
observations of the faint targets of the baseline survey, DESI will conduct a
magnitude-limited Bright Galaxy Survey comprising approximately 10 million
galaxies with a median $z\approx 0.2$. In total, more than 30 million galaxy
and quasar redshifts will be obtained to measure the BAO feature and determine
the matter power spectrum, including redshift space distortions.


The DESI Experiment Part II: Instrument Design

  DESI (Dark Energy Spectropic Instrument) is a Stage IV ground-based dark
energy experiment that will study baryon acoustic oscillations and the growth
of structure through redshift-space distortions with a wide-area galaxy and
quasar redshift survey. The DESI instrument is a robotically-actuated,
fiber-fed spectrograph capable of taking up to 5,000 simultaneous spectra over
a wavelength range from 360 nm to 980 nm. The fibers feed ten three-arm
spectrographs with resolution $R= \lambda/\Delta\lambda$ between 2000 and 5500,
depending on wavelength. The DESI instrument will be used to conduct a
five-year survey designed to cover 14,000 deg$^2$. This powerful instrument
will be installed at prime focus on the 4-m Mayall telescope in Kitt Peak,
Arizona, along with a new optical corrector, which will provide a three-degree
diameter field of view. The DESI collaboration will also deliver a
spectroscopic pipeline and data management system to reduce and archive all
data for eventual public use.


The Physics of the B Factories

  This work is on the Physics of the B Factories. Part A of this book contains
a brief description of the SLAC and KEK B Factories as well as their detectors,
BaBar and Belle, and data taking related issues. Part B discusses tools and
methods used by the experiments in order to obtain results. The results
themselves can be found in Part C.
  Please note that version 3 on the archive is the auxiliary version of the
Physics of the B Factories book. This uses the notation alpha, beta, gamma for
the angles of the Unitarity Triangle. The nominal version uses the notation
phi_1, phi_2 and phi_3. Please cite this work as Eur. Phys. J. C74 (2014) 3026.


