Conditional Utility, Utility Independence, and Utility Networks

  We introduce a new interpretation of two related notions - conditional
utility and utility independence. Unlike the traditional interpretation, the
new interpretation renders the notions the direct analogues of their
probabilistic counterparts. To capture these notions formally, we appeal to the
notion of utility distribution, introduced in previous paper. We show that
utility distributions, which have a structure that is identical to that of
probability distributions, can be viewed as a special case of an additive
multiattribute utility functions, and show how this special case permits us to
capture the novel senses of conditional utility and utility independence.
Finally, we present the notion of utility networks, which do for utilities what
Bayesian networks do for probabilities. Specifically, utility networks exploit
the new interpretation of conditional utility and utility independence to
compactly represent a utility distribution.


Mechanism Design with Execution Uncertainty

  We introduce the notion of fault tolerant mechanism design, which extends the
standard game theoretic framework of mechanism design to allow for uncertainty
about execution. Specifically, we define the problem of task allocation in
which the private information of the agents is not only their costs to attempt
the tasks, but also their probabilities of failure. For several different
instances of this setting we present technical results, including positive ones
in the form of mechanisms that are incentive compatible, individually rational
and efficient, and negative ones in the form of impossibility theorems.


Stable Invitations

  We consider the situation in which an organizer is trying to convene an
event, and needs to choose a subset of agents to be invited. Agents have
preferences over how many attendees should be at the event and possibly also
who the attendees should be. This induces a stability requirement: All invited
agents should prefer attending to not attending, and all the other agents
should not regret being not invited. The organizer's objective is to find the
invitation of maximum size subject to the stability requirement. We investigate
the computational complexity of finding the maximum stable invitation when all
agents are truthful, as well as the mechanism design problem when agents may
strategically misreport their preferences.


Truth Revelation in Approximately Efficient Combinatorial Auctions

  Some important classical mechanisms considered in Microeconomics and Game
Theory require the solution of a difficult optimization problem. This is true
of mechanisms for combinatorial auctions, which have in recent years assumed
practical importance, and in particular of the gold standard for combinatorial
auctions, the Generalized Vickrey Auction (GVA). Traditional analysis of these
mechanisms - in particular, their truth revelation properties - assumes that
the optimization problems are solved precisely. In reality, these optimization
problems can usually be solved only in an approximate fashion. We investigate
the impact on such mechanisms of replacing exact solutions by approximate ones.
Specifically, we look at a particular greedy optimization method. We show that
the GVA payment scheme does not provide for a truth revealing mechanism. We
introduce another scheme that does guarantee truthfulness for a restricted
class of players. We demonstrate the latter property by identifying natural
properties for combinatorial auctions and showing that, for our restricted
class of players, they imply that truthful strategies are dominant. Those
properties have applicability beyond the specific auction studied.


Expected Utility Networks

  We introduce a new class of graphical representations, expected utility
networks (EUNs), and discuss some of its properties and potential applications
to artificial intelligence and economic theory. In EUNs not only probabilities,
but also utilities enjoy a modular representation. EUNs are undirected graphs
with two types of arc, representing probability and utility dependencies
respectively. The representation of utilities is based on a novel notion of
conditional utility independence, which we introduce and discuss in the context
of other existing proposals. Just as probabilistic inference involves the
computation of conditional probabilities, strategic inference involves the
computation of conditional expected utilities for alternative plans of action.
We define a new notion of conditional expected utility (EU) independence, and
show that in EUNs node separation with respect to the probability and utility
subgraphs implies conditional EU independence.


Collusion in Unrepeated, First-Price Auctions with an Uncertain Number
  of Participants

  We consider the question of whether collusion among bidders (a "bidding
ring") can be supported in equilibrium of unrepeated first-price auctions.
Unlike previous work on the topic such as that by McAfee and McMillan [1992]
and Marshall and Marx [2007], we do not assume that non-colluding agents have
perfect knowledge about the number of colluding agents whose bids are
suppressed by the bidding ring, and indeed even allow for the existence of
multiple cartels. Furthermore, while we treat the association of bidders with
bidding rings as exogenous, we allow bidders to make strategic decisions about
whether to join bidding rings when invited. We identify a bidding ring protocol
that results in an efficient allocation in Bayes{Nash equilibrium, under which
non-colluding agents bid straightforwardly, and colluding agents join bidding
rings when invited and truthfully declare their valuations to the ring center.
We show that bidding rings benefit ring centers and all agents, both members
and non-members of bidding rings, at the auctioneer's expense. The techniques
we introduce in this paper may also be useful for reasoning about other
problems in which agents have asymmetric information about a setting.


