Properties for CD Inequalities with Unbounded Laplacians

  The CD equalities were introduced to imply the gradient estimate of laplace
operator on graphs. This article is based on the unbounded Laplacians, and
finally concludes some equivalent properties of the CD(K,$\infty$)and CD(K,n).


Monitoring Mechanical Motion of Carbon Nanotube based Nanomotor by
  Optical Absorption Spectrum

  The optical absorption spectrums of nanomotors made from double-wall carbon
nanotubes have been calculated with the time-dependent density functional based
tight binding method. When the outer short tube of the nanomotor moves along or
rotates around the inner long tube, the peaks in the spectrum will gradually
evolve and may shift periodically, the amplitude of which can be as large as
hundreds of meV. We show that the features and behaviors of the optical
absorption spectrum could be used to monitor the mechanical motions of the
double-wall carbon nanotube based nanomotor.


Laser spot position dependent photothermal mode cooling of a
  micro-cantilever

  We explore the laser spot position (LSP) dependent photothermal mode cooling
of a micro-cantilever in a Fabry-P\'erot (FP) cavity. Depending on the LSP
along the lever, photothermal coupling to the first two mechanical modes can be
either parallel or anti-parallel. This LSP dependent behavior is analyzed
theoretically by a simple model, which is in quantitatively agreement with our
experimental observation. From simulation, the parallel and anti-parallel
coupling region is identified along the lever. We conclude that a more
efficient mode cooling may be achieved in the parallel coupling region.


Ambipolar Graphene Field Effect Transistors by Local Metal Side Gates

  We demonstrate ambipolar graphene field effect transistors individually
controlled by local metal side gates. The side gated field effect can have
on/off ratio comparable with that of the global back gate, and can be tuned in
a large range by the back gate and/or a second side gate. We also find that the
side gated field effect is significantly stronger by electrically floating the
back gate compared to grounding the back gate, consistent with the finding from
electrostatic simulation.


Cavity mediated effective interaction between phonon and magnon

  Optomagnonics and optomechanics have various applications ranging from
tunable light sources to optical manipulation for quantum information science.
Here, we propose a hybrid system with the interaction between phonon and magnon
which could be tuned by the electromagnetic field based on the radiation
pressure and magneto-optical effect. The self energy of the magnon and phonon
induced by the electromagnetic field and the influence of the thermal noise are
studied. Moreover, the topological features of the hybrid system is illustrated
with resort to the dynamical encircling with the exceptional points, and the
chiral characteristics under these encirclements are found.


Electronic Transport in Chemical Vapor Deposited Graphene Synthesized on
  Cu: Quantum Hall Effect and Weak Localization

  We report on electronic properties of graphene synthesized by chemical vapor
deposition (CVD) on copper then transferred to SiO2/Si. Wafer-scale (up to 4
inches) graphene films have been synthesized, consisting dominantly of
monolayer graphene as indicated by spectroscopic Raman mapping. Low temperature
transport measurements are performed on micro devices fabricated from such CVD
graphene, displaying ambipolar field effect (with on/off ratio ~5 and carrier
mobilities up to ~3000 cm^2/Vs) and "half-integer" quantum Hall effect, a
hall-mark of intrinsic electronic properties of monolayer graphene. We also
observe weak localization and extract information about phase coherence and
scattering of carriers.


Regular orbits and p-regular orbits of solvable linear groups

  Let $V$ be a faithful $G$-module for a finite group $G$ and let $p$ be a
prime dividing $|G|$. An orbit $v^G$ for the action of $G$ on $V$ is
$p$-regular if $|v^G|_p=|G:\bC_G(v)|_p=|G|_p$. Zhang asks the following
question in \cite{Zhang}. Assume that a finite solvable group $G$ acts
faithfully and irreducibly on a vector space $V$ over a finite field $\FF$. If
$G$ has a $p$-regular orbit for every prime $p$ dividing $|G|$, is it true that
$G$ will have a regular orbit on $V$? In \cite{LuCao}, L\"{u} and Cao construct
an example showing that the answer to this question is no, however the example
itself is not correct. In this paper, we study Zhang's question in detail. We
construct examples showing that the answer to this question is no in general.
We also prove the following result. Assume a finite solvable group $G$ of odd
order acts faithfully and irreducibly on a vector space $V$ over a field of odd
characteristic. If $G$ has a $p$-regular orbit for every prime $p$ dividing
$|G|$, then $G$ will have a regular orbit on $V$.


Direct Imaging of Graphene Edges: Atomic Structure and Electronic
  Scattering

  We report an atomically-resolved scanning tunneling microscopy (STM)
investigation of the edges of graphene grains synthesized on Cu foils by
chemical vapor deposition (CVD). Most of the edges are macroscopically parallel
to the zigzag directions of graphene lattice. These edges have microscopic
roughness that is found to also follow zigzag directions at atomic scale,
displaying many ~120 degree turns. A prominent standing wave pattern with
periodicity ~3a/4 (a being the graphene lattice constant) is observed near a
rare-occurring armchair-oriented edge. Observed features of this wave pattern
are consistent with the electronic intervalley backscattering predicted to
occur at armchair edges but not at zigzag edges.


Observation of Quantized Hall Effect and Shubnikov-de Hass Oscillations
  in Highly Doped Bi2Se3: Evidence for Layered Transport of Bulk Carriers

  Bi2Se3 is an important semiconductor thermoelectric material and a prototype
topological insulator. Here we report observation of Shubnikov-de Hass (SdH)
oscillations accompanied by quantized Hall resistances (Rxy) in highly-doped
n-type Bi2Se3 with bulk carrier concentrations of few 10^19 cm^-3. Measurements
under tilted magnetic fields show that the magnetotransport is 2D-like, where
only the c-axis component of the magnetic field controls the Landau level
formation. The quantized step size in 1/Rxy is found to scale with the sample
thickness, and average ~e2/h per quintuple layer (QL). We show that the
observed magnetotransport features do not come from the sample surface, but
arise from the bulk of the sample acting as many parallel 2D electron systems
to give a multilayered quantum Hall effect. Besides revealing a new electronic
property of Bi2Se3, our finding also has important implications for electronic
transport studies of topological insulator materials.


Dark state cooling of a trapped ion using microwave coupling

  We propose a new dark-state cooling method of trapped ion systems in the
Lamb-Dicke limit. With application of microwave dressing the ion, we can obtain
two electromagnetically induced transparency structures. The heating effects
caused by the carrier and the blue sideband transition vanish due to the EIT
effects and the final mean phonon numbers can be much less than the recoil
limit. Our scheme is robust to fluctuations of microwave power and laser
intensities which provides a broad cooling bandwidth to cool motional modes of
a linear ion chain. Moreover, it is more suitable to cool four-level ions on a
large-scale ion chip.


Dynamics of cold pulses induced by super-sonic molecular beam injection
  in the EAST tokamak

  Evolution of electron temperature, electron density and its fluctuation with
high spatial and temporal resolutions are presented for the cold pulse
propagation induced by super-sonic molecular beam injection (SMBI) in ohmic
plasmas in the EAST tokamak. The non-local heat transport occurs for discharges
with plasma current $I_p$=450 kA ($q_{95}\sim5.55$), and electron density
$n_{e0}$ below a critical value of
$(1.35\pm0.25)\times10^{19}~\mathrm{m^{-3}}$. In contrary to the response of
core electron temperature and electron density (roughly 10 ms after SMBI), the
electron density fluctuation in the plasma core increases promptly after SMBI
and reaches its maximum around 15 ms after SMBI. The electron density
fluctuation in the plasma core begins to decrease before the core electron
temperature reaches its maximum (roughly 30 ms). It was also observed that the
turbulence perpendicular velocity close to the inversion point of the
temperature perturbation changes sign after SMBI.


Structural and electronic properties of highly doped topological
  insulator Bi2Se3 crystals

  We present a study of the structural and electronic properties of highly
doped topological insulator Bi2Se3 single crystals synthesized by the Bridgman
method. Lattice structural characterizations by X-ray diffraction, scanning
tunneling microscopy, and Raman spectroscopy confirmed the high quality of the
as-grown single crystals. The topological surface states in the electronic band
structure were directly re- vealed by angle-resolved photoemission
spectroscopy. Transport measurements showed that the conduction was dominated
by the bulk carriers and confirmed a previously observed bulk quantum Hall
effect in such highly doped Bi2Se3 samples. We briefly discuss several possible
strategies of reducing bulk conductance.


Topological insulator Bi2Te3 films synthesized by metal organic chemical
  vapor deposition

  Topological insulator (TI) materials such as Bi2Te3 and Bi2Se3 have attracted
strong recent interests. Large scale, high quality TI thin films are important
for developing TI-based device applications. In this work, structural and
electronic properties of Bi2Te3 thin films deposited by metal organic chemical
vapor deposition (MOCVD) on GaAs (001) substrates were characterized via X-ray
diffraction (XRD), Raman spectroscopy, angle-resolved photoemission
spectroscopy (ARPES), and electronic transport measurements. The characteristic
topological surface states (SS) with a single Dirac cone have been clearly
revealed in the electronic band structure measured by ARPES, confirming the TI
nature of the MOCVD Bi2Te3 films. Resistivity and Hall effect measurements have
demonstrated relatively high bulk carrier mobility of ~350 cm^2/Vs at 300K and
~7,400 cm^2/Vs at 15 K. We have also measured the Seebeck coefficient of the
films. Our demonstration of high quality topological insulator films grown by a
simple and scalable method is of interests for both fundamental research and
practical applications of thermoelectric and TI materials.


Dirac semimetal phase in the hexagonal LiZnBi

  Based on first-principles calculations, we find that LiZnBi, a metallic
hexagonal $ABC$ compound, can be driven into a Dirac semimetal with a pair of
Dirac points by strain. The nontrivial topological nature of the strained
LiZnBi is directly demonstrated by calculating its $\mathbb{Z}_2$ index and the
surface states, where the Fermi arcs are clearly observed. The low-energy
states as well as topological properties are shown to be sensitive to the
strain configurations. The finding of Dirac semimetal phase in LiZnBi may
intrigue further researches on the topological properties of hexagonal $ABC$
materials and promote new practical applications.


Unsupervised Diverse Colorization via Generative Adversarial Networks

  Colorization of grayscale images has been a hot topic in computer vision.
Previous research mainly focuses on producing a colored image to match the
original one. However, since many colors share the same gray value, an input
grayscale image could be diversely colored while maintaining its reality. In
this paper, we design a novel solution for unsupervised diverse colorization.
Specifically, we leverage conditional generative adversarial networks to model
the distribution of real-world item colors, in which we develop a fully
convolutional generator with multi-layer noise to enhance diversity, with
multi-layer condition concatenation to maintain reality, and with stride 1 to
keep spatial information. With such a novel network architecture, the model
yields highly competitive performance on the open LSUN bedroom dataset. The
Turing test of 80 humans further indicates our generated color schemes are
highly convincible.


Study on Timing Performance of a Readout Circuit for SiPM

  In recent years, SiPM photoelectric devices have drawn much attention in the
domain of time-of-flight-based positron emission tomography (TOF-PET). Using
them to construct PET detectors with excellent coincidence time resolution
(CTR) is always one of research focus. In this paper, a SiPM readout
pre-amplifier based on common-base current amplifier structure followed by a
Pole-Zero (PZ) compensation network is constructed, and the main factors that
affect the timing performance of the PET detector are investigated. By
experimental measurement, we found that the CTR is heavily related to the
bandwidth of the amplifier, bias voltage of SiPM, comparator threshold, and PZ
network parameter. The test setup has two detectors, one with LYSO crystal (3
mm 3 mm 10 mm) coupled with a Hamamatsu SiPM (S12642-0404), and the other with
LaBr3 coupled to a PMT-R9800. After the optimization of the readout circuit
with related factors, the CTR between the two detectors is measured as 266ps
FWHM. The test result is a helpful guideline for the readout ASIC chip design
in our next step.


Control and Characterization of Individual Grains and Grain Boundaries
  in Graphene Grown by Chemical Vapor Deposition

  The strong interest in graphene has motivated the scalable production of high
quality graphene and graphene devices. Since large-scale graphene films
synthesized to date are typically polycrystalline, it is important to
characterize and control grain boundaries, generally believed to degrade
graphene quality. Here we study single-crystal graphene grains synthesized by
ambient CVD on polycrystalline Cu, and show how individual boundaries between
coalescing grains affect graphene's electronic properties. The graphene grains
show no definite epitaxial relationship with the Cu substrate, and can cross Cu
grain boundaries. The edges of these grains are found to be predominantly
parallel to zigzag directions. We show that grain boundaries give a significant
Raman "D" peak, impede electrical transport, and induce prominent weak
localization indicative of intervalley scattering in graphene. Finally, we
demonstrate an approach using pre-patterned growth seeds to control graphene
nucleation, opening a route towards scalable fabrication of single-crystal
graphene devices without grain boundaries.


Differential measurement of atmospheric refraction with a telescope with
  double fields of view

  For the sake of complete theoretical research of atmospheric refraction, the
atmospheric refraction under the condition of lower angles of elevation is
still worthy to be analyzed and explored. In some engineering applications, the
objects with larger zenith distance must be observed sometimes. Carrying out
observational research of the atmospheric refraction at lower angles of
elevation has an important significance. It has been considered difficult to
measure the atmospheric refraction at lower angles of elevation. A new idea for
determining atmospheric refraction by utilizing differential measurement with
double fields of view is proposed. Taking the observational principle of
HIPPARCOS satellite as a reference, a schematic prototype with double fields of
view was developed. In August of 2013, experimental observations were carried
out and the atmospheric refractions at lower angles of elevation can be
obtained by the schematic prototype. The measured value of the atmospheric
refraction at the zenith distance of 78.8 degree is $240.23"\pm0.27"$, and the
feasibility of differential measurement of atmospheric refraction with double
fields of view was justified. The limitations of the schematic prototype such
as inadequate ability of gathering light, lack of accurate meteorological data
recording and lower automatic level of observation and data processing were
also pointed out, which need to be improved in subsequent work.


Valley-dependent Exciton Fine Structure and Autler-Townes Doublets from
  Berry Phases in Monolayer Molybdenum Diselenide

  The Berry phase of Bloch states can have profound effects on electron
dynamics lead to novel transport phenomena, such as the anomalous Hall effect
and the valley Hall effect. Recently, it was predicted that the Berry phase
effect can also modify the exciton states in transition metal dichalcogenide
monolayers, and lift the energy degeneracy of exciton states with opposite
angular momentum through an effective valley-orbital coupling. Here, we report
the first observation and control of the Berry-phase induced splitting of the
2p-exciton states in monolayer molybdenum diselenide using the intraexciton
optical Stark spectroscopy. We observe the time-reversal-symmetric analog of
the orbital Zeeman effect resulting from the valley-dependent Berry phase,
which leads to energy difference of +14 (-14) meV between the $2p^+$ and $2p^-$
exciton states in +K (-K) valley, consistent with the ordering from our ab
initio GW-BSE results. In addition, we show that the light-matter coupling
between intraexciton states are remarkably strong, leading to prominent
valley-dependent Autler-Townes doublet under resonant driving. Our study opens
up new pathways to coherently manipulate the quantum states and excitonic
excitation with infrared radiation in two-dimensional semiconductors.


Entanglement-based quantum key distribution with biased basis choice via
  free space

  We report a free-space entanglement-based quantum key distribution
experiment, implementing the biased basis protocol between two sites which are
15.3 km apart. Photon pairs from a polarization-entangled source are
distributed through two 7.8-km free-space optical links. An optimal bias 20:80
between the X and Z basis is used. A post-processing scheme with finite-key
analysis is applied to extract the final secure key. After three-hour
continuous operation at night, a 4293-bit secure key is obtained, with a final
key rate of 0.124 bit per raw key bit which increases the final key rate by
14.8% comparing to the standard BB84 case. Our results experimentally
demonstrate that the efficient BB84 protocol, which increases key generation
efficiency by biasing Alice and Bob's basis choices, is potentially useful for
the ground-satellite quantum communication.


Controlling and distinguishing electronic transport of topological and
  trivial surface states in a topological insulator

  Topological insulators (TI), with characteristic Dirac-fermion topological
surface states (TSS), have emerged as a new class of electronic materials with
rich potentials for both novel physics and device applications. However, a
major challenge with realistic TI materials is to access, distinguish and
manipulate the electronic transport of TSS often obscured by other possible
parallel conduction channels that include the bulk as well as a two-dimensional
electron gas (2DEG) formed near the surface due to bending of the bulk bands.
Such a (Schrodinger-fermion) 2DEG represents topologically-trivial surface
states, whose coexistence with the TSS has been revealed by angle resolved
photoemission spectroscopy. Here we show that simple manipulations of surface
conditions can be used to access and control both types of surface states and
their coexistence in bulk-insulating Bi2Te2Se, whose surface conduction is
prominently manifested in temperature dependent resistance and nonlocal
transport. The trivial 2DEG and TSS can both exhibit clear Shubnikov-de Haas
oscillations in magnetoresistance, with different Berry phases ~0 and ~pi that
distinguish their different topological characters. We also report a deviation
from the typical weak antilocalization behavior, possibly due to high mobility
TSS. Our study enables distinguishing, controlling and harnessing electronic
transport of TI surface carriers with different topological natures.


Decoupling of the Antiferromagnetic and Insulating States in Tb doped
  Sr2IrO4

  Sr2IrO4 is a spin-orbit coupled insulator with an antiferromagnetic (AFM)
transition at TN=240 K. We report results of a comprehensive study of
single-crystal Sr2Ir1-xTbxO4. This study found that mere 3% (x=0.03)
tetravalent Tb4+(4f7) substituting for Ir4+ (rather than Sr2+) completely
suppresses the long-range collinear AFM transition but retains the insulating
state, leading to a phase diagram featuring a decoupling of magnetic
interactions and charge gap. The insulating state at x=0.03 is characterized by
an unusually large specific heat at low temperatures and an incommensurate
magnetic state having magnetic peaks at (0.95, 0, 0) and (0, 0.95, 0) in the
neutron diffraction, suggesting a spiral or spin density wave order. It is
apparent that Tb doping effectively changes the relative strength of the SOI
and the tetragonal CEF and enhances the Hund's rule coupling that competes with
the SOI, and destabilizes the AFM state. However, the disappearance of the AFM
accompanies no metallic state chiefly because an energy level mismatch for the
Ir and Tb sites weakens charge carrier hopping and renders a persistent
insulating state. This work highlights an unconventional correlation between
the AFM and insulating states in which the magnetic transition plays no
critical role in the formation of the charge gap in the iridate.


Towards Chip-on-Chip Neuroscience: Fast Mining of Frequent Episodes
  Using Graphics Processors

  Computational neuroscience is being revolutionized with the advent of
multi-electrode arrays that provide real-time, dynamic, perspectives into brain
function. Mining event streams from these chips is critical to understanding
the firing patterns of neurons and to gaining insight into the underlying
cellular activity. We present a GPGPU solution to mining spike trains. We focus
on mining frequent episodes which captures coordinated events across time even
in the presence of intervening background/"junk" events. Our algorithmic
contributions are two-fold: MapConcatenate, a new computation-to-core mapping
scheme, and a two-pass elimination approach to quickly find supported episodes
from a large number of candidates. Together, they help realize a real-time
"chip-on-chip" solution to neuroscience data mining, where one chip (the
multi-electrode array) supplies the spike train data and another (the GPGPU)
mines it at a scale unachievable previously. Evaluation on both synthetic and
real datasets demonstrate the potential of our approach.


Accelerator-Oriented Algorithm Transformation for Temporal Data Mining

  Temporal data mining algorithms are becoming increasingly important in many
application domains including computational neuroscience, especially the
analysis of spike train data. While application scientists have been able to
readily gather multi-neuronal datasets, analysis capabilities have lagged
behind, due to both lack of powerful algorithms and inaccessibility to powerful
hardware platforms. The advent of GPU architectures such as Nvidia's GTX 280
offers a cost-effective option to bring these capabilities to the
neuroscientist's desktop. Rather than port existing algorithms onto this
architecture, we advocate the need for algorithm transformation, i.e.,
rethinking the design of the algorithm in a way that need not necessarily
mirror its serial implementation strictly. We present a novel implementation of
a frequent episode discovery algorithm by revisiting "in-the-large" issues such
as problem decomposition as well as "in-the-small" issues such as data layouts
and memory access patterns. This is non-trivial because frequent episode
discovery does not lend itself to GPU-friendly data-parallel mapping
strategies. Applications to many datasets and comparisons to CPU as well as
prior GPU implementations showcase the advantages of our approach.


Bounding the speed of `spooky action at a distance'

  In the well-known EPR paper, Einstein et al. called the nonlocal correlation
in quantum entanglement as `spooky action at a distance'. If the spooky action
does exist, what is its speed? All previous experiments along this direction
have locality loopholes and thus can be explained without having to invoke any
`spooky action' at all. Here, we strictly closed the locality loopholes by
observing a 12-hour continuous violation of Bell inequality and concluded that
the lower bound speed of `spooky action' was four orders of magnitude of the
speed of light if the Earth's speed in any inertial reference frame was less
than 10^(-3) times of the speed of light.


Quantum Hall Effects in Monolayer-Bilayer Graphene Planar Junctions

  The Hall resistance of a homogeneous electron system is well known to be
anti-symmetric with respect to the magnetic field and the sign of charge
carriers. We have observed that such symmetries no longer hold in planar hybrid
structures consisting of partly single layer graphene (SLG) and partly bilayer
graphene (BLG) in the quantum Hall (QH) regime. In particular, the Hall
resistance (R12xy) across the SLG and BLG interface is observed to exhibit
quantized plateaus that switch between those characteristic of SLG QH states
and BLG QH states when either the sign of the charge carriers (controlled by a
back gate) or the direction of the magnetic field is reversed. Simultaneously
reversing both the carrier type and the magnetic field gives rise to the same
quantized Hall resistances. The observed SLG-BLG interface QH states, with
characteristic asymmetries with respect to the signs of carriers and magnetic
field, are determined only by the chirality of the QH edge states and can be
explained by a Landauer-B\"uttiker analysis applied to such graphene hybrid
structures involving two regions of different Landau level (LL) structures.


Graphene Induced Surface Reconstruction of Cu

  An atomic-scale study utilizing scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) in
ultrahigh vacuum (UHV) is performed on large single crystalline graphene grains
synthesized on Cu foil by a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) method. After
thermal annealing, we observe the presence of periodic surface depressions
(stripe patterns) that exhibit long-range order formed in the area of Cu
covered by graphene. We suggest that the observed stripe pattern is a Cu
surface reconstruction formed by partial dislocations (which appeared to be
stair-rod-like) resulting from the strain induced by the graphene overlayer. In
addition, these graphene grains are shown to be more decoupled from the Cu
substrate compared to previously studied grains that exhibited Moir\'e
patterns.


Synthetic Graphene Grown by Chemical Vapor Deposition on Copper Foils

  The discovery of graphene, a single layer of covalently bonded carbon atoms,
has attracted intense interests. Initial studies using mechanically exfoliated
graphene unveiled its remarkable electronic, mechanical and thermal properties.
There has been a growing need and rapid development in large-area deposition of
graphene film and its applications. Chemical vapour deposition on copper has
emerged as one of the most promising methods in obtaining large-scale graphene
films with quality comparable to exfoliated graphene. In this chapter, we
review the synthesis and characterizations of graphene grown on copper foil
substrates by atmospheric pressure chemical vapour deposition. We also discuss
potential applications of such large scale synthetic graphene.


Efficient Interlayer Relaxation and Transition of Excitons in Epitaxial
  and Non-epitaxial MoS2/WS2 Heterostructures

  Semiconductor heterostructures provide a powerful platform for the
engineering of excitons. Here we report the excitonic properties of
two-dimensional (2D) heterostructures that consist of monolayer MoS2 and WS2
stacked epitaxially or non-epitaxially in the vertical direction. We find
similarly efficient interlayer relaxation and transition of excitons in both
the epitaxial and nonepitaxial heterostructures. This is manifested by a two
orders of magnitude decrease in the photoluminescence and the appearance of an
extra absorption peak at low energy region. The MoS2/WS2 heterostructures show
weak interlayer coupling and can essentially act as atomicscale heterojunctions
with the intrinsic bandstructures of the two monolayers largely preserved. They
are particularly promising for the applications that request efficient
dissociation of excitons and strong light absorption, including photovoltaics,
solar fuels, photodetectors, and optical modulators. Our results also indicate
that 2D heterostructures promise unprecedented capabilities to engineer
excitons from the atomic level without concerns of interfacial imperfection.


Stable two-dimensional dumbbell stanene: a quantum spin Hall insulator

  We predict from first-principles calculations a novel structure of stanene
with dumbbell units (DB), and show that it is a two-dimensional topological
insulator with inverted band gap which can be tuned by compressive strain.
Furthermore, we propose that the boron nitride sheet and reconstructed
($2\times2$) InSb(111) surfaces are ideal substrates for the experimental
realization of DB stanene, maintaining its non-trivial topology. Combined with
standard semiconductor technologies, such as magnetic doping and electrical
gating, the quantum anomalous Hall effect, Chern half metallicity and
topological superconductivity can be realized in DB stanene on those
substrates. These properties make the two-dimensional supported stanene a good
platform for the study of new quantum spin Hall insulator as well as other
exotic quantum states of matter.


Error Threshold of Fully Random Eigen Model

  Species evolution is essentially a random process of interaction between
biological populations and their environments. As a result, some physical
parameters in evolution models are subject to statistical fluctuations. In this
paper, two important parameters in the Eigen model, the fitness and mutation
rate, are treated as Gaussian distributed random variables simultaneously to
examine the property of the error threshold. Numerical simulation results show
that the error threshold in the fully random model appears as a crossover
region instead of a phase transition point, and as the fluctuation strength
increases the crossover region becomes smoother and smoother. Furthermore, it
is shown that the randomization of the mutation rate plays a dominant role in
changing the error threshold in the fully random model, which is consistent
with the existing experimental data. The implication of the threshold change
due to the randomization for antiviral strategies is discussed.


A magnetic model for low/hard state of black hole binaries

  A magnetic model for low/hard state (LHS) of black hole X-ray binaries
(BHXBs),H1743-322 and GX 339-4, is proposed based on the transportation of
magnetic field from a companion into an accretion disk around a black hole
(BH). This model consists of a truncated thin disk with an inner
advection-dominated accretion flow (ADAF). The spectral profiles of the sources
are fitted in agreement with the data observed at four different dates
corresponding to the rising phase of the LHS. In addition, the association of
the LHS with quasi-steady jet is modelled based on transportation of magnetic
field, where the Blandford-Znajek (BZ) and Blandford-Payne (BP) processes are
invoked to drive the jets from BH and inner ADAF. It turns out that the steep
radio/X-ray correlations observed in H1743-322 and GX 339-4 can be interpreted
based on our model.


Classical analog of Stückelberg interferometry with two coupled
  mechanical resonators

  Coupled nanomechanical resonators have recently attracted much attention for
both fundamental studies in physics and broad applications in high-precession
detection or sensing. By studying the Landau-Zener transitions and Rabi
oscillation of two coupled resonators, it has been shown that such a two-mode
system acts as a classical two-level system bearing the analog to a quantum
mechanical two-level one. Here we construct a St\"uckelberg interferometer with
two coupled cantilevers by driving the system through the avoided crossing
twice. By measuring the non-adiabatic phase acquired at the Landau-Zener
transition, we unveil an in-depth analog between the two-mode and quantum
two-level systems. Our study opens up new opportunities for constructing
interferometers with classical devices.


Effective mass sensing using optomechanically induced transparency in
  microresonator system

  Detecting and weighing the individual nanoparticles is an important approach
to study the behavior and properties of single particles. Here we illustrate an
effective mass sensing scheme using optomechanical resonator system. Based on
the optomechanically induced transparency phenomenon, a Stokes field reference
approach is used to sense the mass of the particle on the microresonator. The
field intensity of the transmission field will be changed by the effect of the
particle which avoids the limits of decay induced spectral width in the
resonance shift detection. Exploiting the perturbation method, we theoretically
evaluated the dynamical behavior of the system, and achieved the femtogram
level mass sensing without the need for high cavity Q-value, and strong
coupling strength in the optomechanically system.


In-Situ Monitoring of Thermal Annealing Induced Evolution in Film
  Morphology and Film-Substrate Bonding in a Monolayer MoS2 Film

  We perform in-situ two-cycle thermal cycling and annealing studies for a
transferred CVD-grown monolayer MoS2 on a SiO2/Si substrate, using spatially
resolved micro-Raman and PL spectroscopy. After the thermal cycling and being
annealed at 305 deg C twice, the film morphology and film-substrate bonding are
significantly modified, which together with the removal of polymer residues
cause major changes in the strain and doping distribution over the film, and
thus the optical properties. Before annealing, the strain associated with
ripples in the transferred film dominates the spatial distributions of the PL
peak position and intensity over the film; after annealing, the variation in
film-substrate bonding, affecting both strain and doping, becomes the leading
factor. This work reveals that the film-substrate bonding, and thus the strain
and doping, is unstable under thermal stress, which is important for
understanding the substrate effects on the optical and transport properties of
the 2D material and their impact on device applications.


An improved immersed finte element particle-in-cell method for plasma
  simulation

  The particle-in-cell (PIC) method has been widely used for plasma simulation,
because of its noise-reduction capability and moderate computational cost. The
immersed finite element (IFE) method is efficient for solving interface
problems on Cartesian meshes, which is desirable for PIC method. The
combination of these two methods provides an effective tool for plasma
simulation with complex interface/boundary. This paper introduces an improved
IFE-PIC method that enhances the performance in both IFE and PIC aspects. For
the electric field solver, we adopt the newly developed partially penalized IFE
method with enhanced accuracy. For PIC implementation, we introduce a new
interpolation technique to ensure the conservation of the charge. Numerical
examples are provided to demonstrate the features of the improved IFE-PIC
method.


Classical dynamical localization in a strongly driven two-mode
  mechanical system

  We report the realization of dynamical localization in a strongly driven
two-mode optomechanical system consisting of two coupled cantilevers. Due to
the coupling, mechanical oscillations can transport between the cantilevers.
However, by placing one of the cantilevers inside a harmonically oscillating
optical trap, we demonstrate that mechanical oscillations become tightly
bounded to the isolated cantilevers rather than propagate away at specific
driving parameters. The effect of dynamical localization is employed to induce
a conductor-to-insulator-like transition in the two-mode mechanical system,
which opens up new possibilities for further coherent control of transport
phenomena in coupled-mechanical-resonator based lattice.


Collaborative Filtering with Graph-based Implicit Feedback

  Introducing consumed items as users' implicit feedback in matrix
factorization (MF) method, SVD++ is one of the most effective collaborative
filtering methods for personalized recommender systems. Though powerful, SVD++
has two limitations: (i). only user-side implicit feedback is utilized, whereas
item-side implicit feedback, which can also enrich item representations, is not
leveraged;(ii). in SVD++, the interacted items are equally weighted when
combining the implicit feedback, which can not reflect user's true preferences
accurately. To tackle the above limitations, in this paper we propose
Graph-based collaborative filtering (GCF) model, Weighted Graph-based
collaborative filtering (W-GCF) model and Attentive Graph-based collaborative
filtering (A-GCF) model, which (i). generalize the implicit feedback to item
side based on the user-item bipartite graph; (ii). flexibly learn the weights
of individuals in the implicit feedback hence improve the model's capacity.
Comprehensive experiments show that our proposed models outperform
state-of-the-art models.For sparse implicit feedback scenarios, additional
improvement is further achieved by leveraging the step-two implicit feedback
information.


Nuclear Pulse Charge Measurement with a Method of Time over Linear
  Threshold

  Time over dynamic threshold (TODT) method, proposed in our previous work, has
been successfully used for nuclear pulse charge measurement in PET detectors.
It has advantages of strict linearity, large dynamic range, and better energy
resolution, but requires a relatively complex circuit to generate specific
dynamic threshold. In this paper, we propose to replace the dynamic threshold
by a simpler linearly increasing threshold (called as TOLT method) with the aim
to simplify the threshold generation circuit meanwhile maintaining its high
energy resolution. Mathematical analysis on this replacement and the related
realization circuit are presented. By energy spectrum measurement of PET
detectors, the method is evaluated. The energy resolutions of PET detectors,
composed of a PMT coupled with LYSO and LaBr3 crystal, are measured as 12.54%
and 5.18% respectively, which is equivalent to the result obtained by TODT
method. The test results show that the TOLT method is more practicable for
charge measurement of nuclear detectors.


Adversarial Learning with Local Coordinate Coding

  Generative adversarial networks (GANs) aim to generate realistic data from
some prior distribution (e.g., Gaussian noises). However, such prior
distribution is often independent of real data and thus may lose semantic
information (e.g., geometric structure or content in images) of data. In
practice, the semantic information might be represented by some latent
distribution learned from data, which, however, is hard to be used for sampling
in GANs. In this paper, rather than sampling from the pre-defined prior
distribution, we propose a Local Coordinate Coding (LCC) based sampling method
to improve GANs. We derive a generalization bound for LCC based GANs and prove
that a small dimensional input is sufficient to achieve good generalization.
Extensive experiments on various real-world datasets demonstrate the
effectiveness of the proposed method.


Dual Reconstruction Nets for Image Super-Resolution with Gradient
  Sensitive Loss

  Deep neural networks have exhibited promising performance in image
super-resolution (SR) due to the power in learning the non-linear mapping from
low-resolution (LR) images to high-resolution (HR) images. However, most deep
learning methods employ feed-forward architectures, and thus the dependencies
between LR and HR images are not fully exploited, leading to limited learning
performance. Moreover, most deep learning based SR methods apply the pixel-wise
reconstruction error as the loss, which, however, may fail to capture
high-frequency information and produce perceptually unsatisfying results,
whilst the recent perceptual loss relies on some pre-trained deep model and
they may not generalize well. In this paper, we introduce a mask to separate
the image into low- and high-frequency parts based on image gradient magnitude,
and then devise a gradient sensitive loss to well capture the structures in the
image without sacrificing the recovery of low-frequency content. Moreover, by
investigating the duality in SR, we develop a dual reconstruction network (DRN)
to improve the SR performance. We provide theoretical analysis on the
generalization performance of our method and demonstrate its effectiveness and
superiority with thorough experiments.


Geometric energy transfer in a Stückelberg interferometer of two
  parametrically coupled mechanical modes

  Geometric phase, which is acquired after a system undergoing cyclic evolution
in the Hilbert space, is believed to be noise-resilient because it depends only
on the global properties of the evolution path. Here, we report geometric
control of energy transfer between two parametrically coupled mechanical modes
in an optomechanical system. The parametric pump is controlled along a closed
loop to implement geometric St\"uckelberg interferometry of mechanical motion,
in which the dynamical phase is eliminated using the Hahn-echo technique. We
demonstrate that the interference based solely on the geometric phase is robust
against certain noises. And, more remarkably, we show that the all-geometric
approach can achieve a high energy-transfer rate that is comparable to those
using conventional dynamical protocols.


A simplified finite volume lattice Boltzmann method for simulations of
  fluid flows from laminar to turbulent regime, Part I: Numerical framework and
  its application to laminar flow simulation

  In this paper, a finite volume lattice Boltzmann method (FVLBM) based on
cell-center unstructured girds is presented and full studied to simulate the
incompressible laminar flows, which is simple modified from the cell-vertex
unstructured girds FVLBM proposed by Stiebler et al. [Computers & Fluids, 2006,
35(8): 814-819]. Compared with other complex flux reconstruct methods, the
computational cost of present scheme is little and can achieve second-order
spatial accuracy, the temporal accuracy is adjustable depending on the temporal
discretization methods. Different boundary conditions are illustrated and easy
implement to the complex geometries. Four cases are testified to validate the
present method, including one plate driven Couette flow for accuracy test, flow
in the square cavity, flow over the single circular cylinder and more complex
double circular cylinders. Numerical experiments show that the present scheme
can use relatively few grid cells to simulate relatively higher Reynolds number
flow, steady and unsteady flows, demonstrate the good capability of the present
method.


Cross-task learning for audio tagging, sound event detection and spatial
  localization: DCASE 2019 baseline systems

  The Detection and Classification of Acoustic Scenes and Events (DCASE) 2019
challenge focuses on audio tagging, sound event detection and spatial
localisation. DCASE 2019 consists of five tasks: 1) acoustic scene
classification, 2) audio tagging with noisy labels and minimal supervision, 3)
sound event localisation and detection, 4) sound event detection in domestic
environments, and 5) urban sound tagging. In this paper, we propose generic
cross-task baseline systems based on convolutional neural networks (CNNs). The
motivation is to investigate the performance of a variety of models across
several tasks without exploiting the specific characteristics of the tasks. We
look at CNNs with 5, 9, and 13 layers, and find that the optimal architecture
is task-dependent. For the systems we considered, we found that the 9-layer CNN
with average pooling is a good model for a majority of the DCASE 2019 tasks.


Cross-task learning for audio tagging, sound event detection spatial
  localization: DCASE 2019 baseline systems

  The Detection and Classification of Acoustic Scenes and Events (DCASE) 2019
challenge focuses on audio tagging, sound event detection and spatial
localisation. DCASE 2019 consists of five tasks: 1) acoustic scene
classification, 2) audio tagging with noisy labels and minimal supervision, 3)
sound event localisation and detection, 4) sound event detection in domestic
environments, and 5) urban sound tagging. In this paper, we propose generic
cross-task baseline systems based on convolutional neural networks (CNNs). The
motivation is to investigate the performance of a variety of models across
several tasks without exploiting the specific characteristics of the tasks. We
looked at CNNs with 5, 9, and 13 layers, and found that the optimal
architecture is task-dependent. For the systems we considered, we found that
the 9-layer CNN with average pooling is a good model for a majority of the
DCASE 2019 tasks.


Large-scale Graphitic Thin Films Synthesized on Ni and Transferred to
  Insulators: Structural and Electronic Properties

  We present a comprehensive study of the structural and electronic properties
of ultrathin films containing graphene layers synthesized by chemical vapor
deposition (CVD) based surface segregation on polycrystalline Ni foils then
transferred onto insulating SiO2/Si substrates. Films of size up to several
mm's have been synthesized. Structural characterizations by atomic force
microscopy (AFM), scanning tunneling microscopy (STM), cross-sectional
transmission electron microscopy (XTEM) and Raman spectroscopy confirm that
such large scale graphitic thin films (GTF) contain both thick graphite regions
and thin regions of few layer graphene. The films also contain many wrinkles,
with sharply-bent tips and dislocations revealed by XTEM, yielding insights on
the growth and buckling processes of the GTF. Measurements on mm-scale
back-gated transistor devices fabricated from the transferred GTF show
ambipolar field effect with resistance modulation ~50% and carrier mobilities
reaching ~2000 cm^2/Vs. We also demonstrate quantum transport of carriers with
phase coherence length over 0.2 $\mu$m from the observation of 2D weak
localization in low temperature magneto-transport measurements. Our results
show that despite the non-uniformity and surface roughness, such large-scale,
flexible thin films can have electronic properties promising for device
applications.


LAMOST Spectroscopic Survey of the Galactic Anticentre (LSS-GAC): the
  second release of value-added catalogues

  We present the second release of value-added catalogues of the LAMOST
Spectroscopic Survey of the Galactic Anticentre (LSS-GAC DR2). The catalogues
present values of radial velocity $V_{\rm r}$, atmospheric parameters ---
effective temperature $T_{\rm eff}$, surface gravity log$g$, metallicity
[Fe/H], $\alpha$-element to iron (metal) abundance ratio [$\alpha$/Fe]
([$\alpha$/M]), elemental abundances [C/H] and [N/H], and absolute magnitudes
${\rm M}_V$ and ${\rm M}_{K_{\rm s}}$ deduced from 1.8 million spectra of 1.4
million unique stars targeted by the LSS-GAC since September 2011 until June
2014. The catalogues also give values of interstellar reddening, distance and
orbital parameters determined with a variety of techniques, as well as proper
motions and multi-band photometry from the far-UV to the mid-IR collected from
the literature and various surveys. Accuracies of radial velocities reach
5kms$^{-1}$ for late-type stars, and those of distance estimates range between
10 -- 30 per cent, depending on the spectral signal-to-noise ratios. Precisions
of [Fe/H], [C/H] and [N/H] estimates reach 0.1dex, and those of [$\alpha$/Fe]
and [$\alpha$/M] reach 0.05dex. The large number of stars, the contiguous sky
coverage, the simple yet non-trivial target selection function and the robust
estimates of stellar radial velocities and atmospheric parameters, distances
and elemental abundances, make the catalogues a valuable data set to study the
structure and evolution of the Galaxy, especially the solar-neighbourhood and
the outer disk.


Efficient and Effective Volume Visualization with Enhanced Isosurface
  Rendering

  Compared with full volume rendering, isosurface rendering has several well
recognized advantages in efficiency and accuracy. However, standard isosurface
rendering has some limitations in effectiveness. First, it uses a monotone
colored approach and can only visualize the geometry features of an isosurface.
The lack of the capability to illustrate the material property and the internal
structures behind an isosurface has been a big limitation of this method in
applications. Another limitation of isosurface rendering is the difficulty to
reveal physically meaningful structures, which are hidden in one or multiple
isosurfaces. As such, the application requirements of extract and recombine
structures of interest can not be implemented effectively with isosurface
rendering. In this work, we develop an enhanced isosurface rendering technique
to improve the effectiveness while maintaining the performance efficiency of
the standard isosurface rendering. First, an isosurface color enhancement
method is proposed to illustrate the neighborhood density and to reveal some of
the internal structures. Second, we extend the structure extraction capability
of isosurface rendering by enabling explicit scene exploration within a
3D-view, using surface peeling, voxel-selecting, isosurface segmentation, and
multi-surface-structure visualization. Our experiments show that the color
enhancement not only improves the visual fidelity of the rendering, but also
reveals the internal structures without significant increase of the
computational cost. Explicit scene exploration is also demonstrated as a
powerful tool in some application scenarios, such as displaying multiple
abdominal organs.


Quantum teleportation and entanglement distribution over 100-kilometre
  free-space channels

  A long standing goal for quantum communication is to transfer a quantum state
over arbitrary distances. Free-space quantum communication provides a promising
solution towards this challenging goal. Here, through a 97-km free space
channel, we demonstrate long distance quantum teleportation over a 35-53 dB
loss one-link channel, and entanglement distribution over a 66-85 dB high-loss
two-link channel. We achieve an average fidelity of {80.4(9)}% for teleporting
six distinct initial states and observe the violation of the
Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality after distributing entanglement. Besides
being of fundamental interest, our result represents a significant step towards
a global quantum network. Moreover, the high-frequency and high-accuracy
acquiring, pointing and tracking technique developed in our experiment provides
an essential tool for future satellite-based quantum communication.


Experimental unconditionally secure bit commitment

  Bit commitment is a fundamental cryptographic task that guarantees a secure
commitment between two mutually mistrustful parties and is a building block for
many cryptographic primitives, including coin tossing, zero-knowledge proofs,
oblivious transfer and secure two-party computation. Unconditionally secure bit
commitment was thought to be impossible until recent theoretical protocols that
combine quantum mechanics and relativity were shown to elude previous
impossibility proofs. Here we implement such a bit commitment protocol. In the
experiment, the committer performs quantum measurements using two quantum key
distribution systems and the results are transmitted via free-space optical
communication to two agents separated with more than 20 km. The security of the
protocol relies on the properties of quantum information and relativity theory.
We show that, in each run of the experiment, a bit is successfully committed
with less than 5.68*10^-2 cheating probability. Our result demonstrates
unconditionally secure bit commitment and the experimental feasibility of
relativistic quantum communication.


