Spin scattering of a particle for periodic boundary conditions

  We have studied anomalous diffusion of a particle in a random medium in which
the passage of the particle may modify the state of the visited sites. The
simplicity of the dynamics allows analytic solution. Interesting propagation
and organization behaviors will be reported.


Discovery potential of Kaluza-Klein gluons at hadron colliders: A
  Snowmass whitepaper

  We investigate the discovery potential of Kaluza-Klein gluons as a dijet
resonance at hadron colliders with different center-of-mass energies, from 14
TeV to 33 TeV to 100 TeV. We also present the current bounds from dijet
searches at UA2, Tevatron, and LHC.


Mean Field Theory for Lossy Nonlinear Composites

  The mean-field theory for lossy nonlinear composites, described by complex
and field-dependent dielectric functions, is presented. By using the spectral
representation of linear composites with identical microstructure, we develop
self-consistent equations for the effective response. We examine two types of
microstructure, namely, the Maxwell-Garnett approximation and the effective
medium approximation to illustrate the theory.


Dielectric behaviors of corrugated membranes

  We have employed our recently developed Green's function formalism to study
the dielectric behavior of a model membrane, formed by two periodic interfaces
separating two media of different dielectric constants. The Maxwell's equations
are converted into a surface integral equation; thus it greatly simplifies the
solutions and yields accurate results for membranes of arbitrary shape. The
integral equation is solved and dielectric dispersion spectrum is obtained for
a model corrugated membrane. We report a giant dielectric dispersion as the
amplitude of corrugation becomes large.


Hausdorff dimension, Mean quadratic variation of infinite self-similar
  measures

  Under weaker condition than that of Riedi & Mandelbrot, the Hausdorff (and
Hausdorff-Besicovitch) dimension of infinite self-similar set K which is the
invariant compact set of infinite contractive similarities {S_j(x)} satisfying
open set condition is obtained. It is proved (under some additional hypotheses)
that the mean quadratic variation of infinite self-similar measure is of
asymptotic property.


Sensor Deployment for Air Pollution Monitoring Using Public
  Transportation System

  Air pollution monitoring is a very popular research topic and many monitoring
systems have been developed. In this paper, we formulate the Bus Sensor
Deployment Problem (BSDP) to select the bus routes on which sensors are
deployed, and we use Chemical Reaction Optimization (CRO) to solve BSDP. CRO is
a recently proposed metaheuristic designed to solve a wide range of
optimization problems. Using the real world data, namely Hong Kong Island bus
route data, we perform a series of simulations and the results show that CRO is
capable of solving this optimization problem efficiently.


Enhancement of Optical Nonlinearity Through Anisotropic Microstructures

  We investigate the polarization dependence of optical nonlinearity
enhancement for a uniaxial anisotropic composite of metal nanocrystals in a
dielectric host. Three cases are distinguished depending on whether the
polarization is parallel, perpendicular or unpolarized with respect to the axis
of anisotropy. For the parallel polarization, the results show that the 3D
results are qualitatively similar to the 2D case reported recently. For the
perpendicular polarization, the results are markedly different from the
parallel counterpart: In contrast to the absorption, the enhancement factor
actually increases with the anisotropy. Thus the separation of the absorption
and enhancement peaks becomes even more pronounced than the parallel
polarization case. These results indicate a strong polarization dependence of
the nonlinear optical response.


Human Action Recognition and Prediction: A Survey

  Derived from rapid advances in computer vision and machine learning, video
analysis tasks have been moving from inferring the present state to predicting
the future state. Vision-based action recognition and prediction from videos
are such tasks, where action recognition is to infer human actions (present
state) based upon complete action executions, and action prediction to predict
human actions (future state) based upon incomplete action executions. These two
tasks have become particularly prevalent topics recently because of their
explosively emerging real-world applications, such as visual surveillance,
autonomous driving vehicle, entertainment, and video retrieval, etc. Many
attempts have been devoted in the last a few decades in order to build a robust
and effective framework for action recognition and prediction. In this paper,
we survey the complete state-of-the-art techniques in the action recognition
and prediction. Existing models, popular algorithms, technical difficulties,
popular action databases, evaluation protocols, and promising future directions
are also provided with systematic discussions.


Partial Functional Linear Quantile Regression for Neuroimaging Data
  Analysis

  We propose a prediction procedure for the functional linear quantile
regression model by using partial quantile covariance techniques and develop a
simple partial quantile regression (SIMPQR) algorithm to efficiently extract
partial quantile regression (PQR) basis for estimating functional coefficients.
We further extend our partial quantile covariance techniques to functional
composite quantile regression (CQR) defining partial composite quantile
covariance. There are three major contributions. (1) We define partial quantile
covariance between two scalar variables through linear quantile regression. We
compute PQR basis by sequentially maximizing the partial quantile covariance
between the response and projections of functional covariates. (2) In order to
efficiently extract PQR basis, we develop a SIMPQR algorithm analogous to
simple partial least squares (SIMPLS). (3) Under the homoscedasticity
assumption, we extend our techniques to partial composite quantile covariance
and use it to find the partial composite quantile regression (PCQR) basis. The
SIMPQR algorithm is then modified to obtain the SIMPCQR algorithm. Two
simulation studies show the superiority of our proposed methods. Two real data
from ADHD-200 sample and ADNI are analyzed using our proposed methods.


Invariant Clusters for Hybrid Systems

  In this paper, we propose an approach to automatically compute invariant
clusters for semialgebraic hybrid systems. An invariant cluster for an ordinary
differential equation (ODE) is a multivariate polynomial invariant g(u,x)=0,
parametric in u, which can yield an infinite number of concrete invariants by
assigning different values to u so that every trajectory of the system can be
overapproximated precisely by a union of concrete invariants. For semialgebraic
systems, which involve ODEs with multivariate polynomial vector flow, invariant
clusters can be obtained by first computing the remainder of the Lie derivative
of a template multivariate polynomial w.r.t. its Groebner basis and then
solving the system of polynomial equations obtained from the coefficients of
the remainder. Based on invariant clusters and sum-of-squares (SOS)
programming, we present a new method for the safety verification of hybrid
systems. Experiments on nonlinear benchmark systems from biology and control
theory show that our approach is effective and efficient.


Variational Smoothing in Recurrent Neural Network Language Models

  We present a new theoretical perspective of data noising in recurrent neural
network language models (Xie et al., 2017). We show that each variant of data
noising is an instance of Bayesian recurrent neural networks with a particular
variational distribution (i.e., a mixture of Gaussians whose weights depend on
statistics derived from the corpus such as the unigram distribution). We use
this insight to propose a more principled method to apply at prediction time
and propose natural extensions to data noising under the variational framework.
In particular, we propose variational smoothing with tied input and output
embedding matrices and an element-wise variational smoothing method. We
empirically verify our analysis on two benchmark language modeling datasets and
demonstrate performance improvements over existing data noising methods.


Emergent Quantum Dynamics of Vortex Line under Linear Local Induction
  Approximation

  Using the linear local induction approximation, we investigated the
self-induced motion of a vortex line that corresponds to the motion of a
particle in quantum mechanics. Concerning Kelvin waves, the effective
Schr\"odinger equation, physical quantities operators, and the corresponding
path-integral formula are obtained. The vortex line-particle mapping may help
in understanding particle motion in quantum mechanics.


High Dimensional Robust Inference for Cox Regression Models

  We consider high-dimensional inference for potentially misspecified Cox
proportional hazard models based on low dimensional results by Lin and Wei
[1989]. A de-sparsified Lasso estimator is proposed based on the log partial
likelihood function and shown to converge to a pseudo-true parameter vector.
Interestingly, the sparsity of the true parameter can be inferred from that of
the above limiting parameter. Moreover, each component of the above
(non-sparse) estimator is shown to be asymptotically normal with a variance
that can be consistently estimated even under model misspecifications. In some
cases, this asymptotic distribution leads to valid statistical inference
procedures, whose empirical performances are illustrated through numerical
examples.


Dielectric Behavior of Nonspherical Cell Suspensions

  Recent experiments revealed that the dielectric dispersion spectrum of
fission yeast cells in a suspension was mainly composed of two sub-dispersions.
The low-frequency sub-dispersion depended on the cell length, whereas the
high-frequency one was independent of it. The cell shape effect was
qualitatively simulated by an ellipsoidal cell model. However, the comparison
between theory and experiment was far from being satisfactory. In an attempt to
close up the gap between theory and experiment, we considered the more
realistic cells of spherocylinders, i.e., circular cylinders with two
hemispherical caps at both ends. We have formulated a Green function formalism
for calculating the spectral representation of cells of finite length. The
Green function can be reduced because of the azimuthal symmetry of the cell.
This simplification enables us to calculate the dispersion spectrum and hence
access the effect of cell structure on the dielectric behavior of cell
suspensions.


Nonlinear ac response of anisotropic composites

  When a suspension consisting of dielectric particles having nonlinear
characteristics is subjected to a sinusoidal (ac) field, the electrical
response will in general consist of ac fields at frequencies of the
higher-order harmonics. These ac responses will also be anisotropic. In this
work, a self-consistent formalism has been employed to compute the induced
dipole moment for suspensions in which the suspended particles have nonlinear
characteristics, in an attempt to investigate the anisotropy in the ac
response. The results showed that the harmonics of the induced dipole moment
and the local electric field are both increased as the anisotropy increases for
the longitudinal field case, while the harmonics are decreased as the
anisotropy increases for the transverse field case. These results are
qualitatively understood with the spectral representation. Thus, by measuring
the ac responses both parallel and perpendicular to the uniaxial anisotropic
axis of the field-induced structures, it is possible to perform a real-time
monitoring of the field-induced aggregation process.


Spectral Representation Theory for Dielectric Behavior of Nonspherical
  Cell Suspensions

  Recent experiments revealed that the dielectric dispersion spectrum of
fission yeast cells in a suspension was mainly composed of two sub-dispersions.
The low-frequency sub-dispersion depended on the cell length, while the
high-frequency one was independent of it. The cell shape effect was simulated
by an ellipsoidal cell model but the comparison between theory and experiment
was far from being satisfactory. Prompted by the discrepancy, we proposed the
use of spectral representation to analyze more realistic cell models. We
adopted a shell-spheroidal model to analyze the effects of the cell membrane.
It is found that the dielectric property of the cell membrane has only a minor
effect on the dispersion magnitude ratio and the characteristic frequency
ratio. We further included the effect of rotation of dipole induced by an
external electric field, and solved the dipole-rotation spheroidal model in the
spectral representation. Good agreement between theory and experiment has been
obtained.


Field-induced structure transformation in electrorheological solids

  We have computed the local electric field in a body-centered tetragonal (BCT)
lattice of point dipoles via the Ewald-Kornfeld formulation, in an attempt to
examine the effects of a structure transformation on the local field strength.
For the ground state of an electrorheological solid of hard spheres, we
identified a novel structure transformation from the BCT to the face-centered
cubic (FCC) lattices by changing the uniaxial lattice constant c under the hard
sphere constraint. In contrast to the previous results, the local field
exhibits a non-monotonic transition from BCT to FCC. As c increases from the
BCT ground state, the local field initially decreases rapidly towards the
isotropic value at the body-centered cubic lattice, decreases further, reaching
a minimum value and increases, passing through the isotropic value again at an
intermediate lattice, reaches a maximum value and finally decreases to the FCC
value. An experimental realization of the structure transformation is
suggested. Moreover, the change in the local field can lead to a generalized
Clausius-Mossotti equation for the BCT lattices.


Computer simulations of electrorheological fluids in the dipole-induced
  dipole model

  We have employed the multiple image method to compute the interparticle force
for a polydisperse electrorheological (ER) fluid in which the suspended
particles can have various sizes and different permittivites. The point-dipole
(PD) approximation being routinely adopted in computer simulation of ER fluids
is shown to err considerably when the particles approach and finally touch due
to multipolar interactions. The PD approximation becomes even worse when the
dielectric contrast between the particles and the host medium is large. From
the results, we show that the dipole-induced-dipole (DID) model yields very
good agreements with the multiple image results for a wide range of dielectric
contrasts and polydispersity. As an illustration, we have employed the DID
model to simulate the athermal aggregation of particles in ER fluids both in
uniaxial and rotating fields. We find that the aggregation time is
significantly reduced. The DID model accounts for multipolar interaction
partially and is simple to use in computer simulation of ER fluids.


First-Principles Approach to Electrorotation Assay

  We have presented a theoretical study of electrorotation assay based on the
spectral representation theory. We consider unshelled and shelled spheroidal
particles as an extension to spherical ones. From the theoretical analysis, we
find that the coating can change the characteristic frequency at which the
maximum rotational angular velocity occurs. The shift in the characteristic
frequency is attributed to a change in the dielectric properties of the
bead-coating complex with respect to those of the uncoated particles. By
adjusting the dielectric properties and the thickness of the coating, it is
possible to obtain good agreement between our theoretical predictions and the
assay data.


Electrorotation of a pair of spherical particles

  We present a theoretical study of electrorotation (ER) of two spherical
particles under the action of a rotating electric field. When the two particles
approach and finally touch, the mutual polarization interaction between the
particles leads to a change in the dipole moment of the individual particle and
hence the ER spectrum, as compared to that of the well-separated particles. The
mutual polarization effects are captured by the method of multiple images. From
the theoretical analysis, we find that the mutual polarization effects can
change the characteristic frequency at which the maximum angular velocity of
electrorotation occurs. The numerical results can be understood in the spectral
representation theory.


Relaxation of surface charge on rotating dielectric spheres:
  Implications on dynamic electrorheological effects

  We have examined the effect of an oscillatory rotation of a polarized
dielectric particle. The rotational motion leads to a re-distribution of the
polarization charge on the surface of the particle. We show that the time
averaged steady-state dipole moment is along the field direction, but its
magnitude is reduced by a factor which depends on the angular velocity of
rotation. As a result, the rotational motion of the particle reduces the
electrorheological effect. We further assume that the relaxation of polarized
charge is arised from a finite conductivity of the particle or host medium. We
calculate the relaxation time based on the Maxwell-Wagner theory, suitably
generalized to include the rotational motion. Analytic expressions for the
reduction factor and the relaxation time are given and their dependence on the
angular velocity of rotation will be discussed.


Dielectric behavior of oblate spheroidal particles: Application to
  erythrocytes suspensions

  We have investigated the effect of particle shape on the eletrorotation (ER)
spectrum of living cells suspensions. In particular, we consider coated oblate
spheroidal particles and present a theoretical study of ER based on the
spectral representation theory. Analytic expressions for the characteristic
frequency as well as the dispersion strength can be obtained, thus simplifying
the fitting of experimental data on oblate spheroidal cells that abound in the
literature. From the theoretical analysis, we find that the cell shape, coating
as well as material parameters can change the ER spectrum. We demonstrate good
agreement between our theoretical predictions and experimental data on human
erthrocytes suspensions.


Computer simulations of polydisperse ER fluids in DID model

  The theoretical investigations on electrorheological (ER) fluids are usually
concentrated on monodisperse systems. Real ER fluids must be polydisperse in
nature, i.e., the suspended particles can have various sizes and/or different
dielectric constants. An initial approach for these studies would be the
point-dipole (PD) approximation, which is known to err considerably when the
particles approach and finally touch due to multipolar interactions. In a
recent work, we proposed a dipole-induced-dipole (DID) model for computer
simulation of ER fluids, which was shown to be both more accurate than the PD
model and easy to use. The DID model was applied to simulate the athermal
aggregation of particles in ER fluids and the aggregation time was found to be
significantly reduced as compared to the PD model. In this work, we will report
results for the case when the dielectric contrasts of some particles can be
negative. In which case, the direction of the force is reversed. Moreover, the
inclusion of DID force further complicates the results because the symmetry
between positive and negative contrasts will be broken by the presence of
dipole-induced interactions.


Heterogeneous aggregation in binary colloidal alloys

  Molecular dynamics (MD) simulation has been employed to study the
nonequilibrium structure formation of two types of particles in a colloidal
suspension, driven by type-dependent forces. We examined the time evolution of
structure formation as well as the structural properties of the resulting
aggregation by studying the radial distribution function (RDF). The resulting
aggregation is well described by a binary colloidal gelation. We compared the
structural properties to those for one type of particles. From the MD results,
it is evident that there are significant differences between the RDF's of the
two cases. Moreover, we found that the average coordination number is generally
larger in the monodisperse case for all area fractions considered. Thus, by
means of heterogeneous aggregation, it is possible to obtain a wide variety of
structures while more close-packed structures are formed for monodisperse
colloidal aggregation.


Many-body dipole-induced dipole model for electrorheological fluids

  Theoretical investigations on electrorheological (ER) fluids usually rely on
computer simulations. An initial approach for these studies would be the
point-dipole (PD) approximation, which is known to err considerably when the
particles approach and finally touch due to many-body and multipolar
interactions. Thus various work attempted to go beyond the PD model. Being
beyond the PD model, previous attempts have been restricted to either
local-field effects only or multipolar effects only, but not both. For
instance, we recently proposed a dipole-induced-dipole (DID) model which is
shown to be both more accurate than the PD model and easy to use. This work is
necessary because the many-body (local-field) effect is included to put forth
the many-body DID model. The results show that the multipolar interactions can
indeed be dominant over the dipole interaction, while the local-field effect
may yield an important correction.


Dielectric response of spherical particles of graded materials

  We have studied the effective response of composites of spherical particles
with a dielectric profile which varies along the radius of the particles. We
developed a differential effective dipole theory to compute the dipole moment
of individual spherical particle and hence the effective dielectric response of
a dilute suspension. The theory has been applied to two model dielectric
profiles. Moreover, we compare the approximate results with the exact results
of the power-law profile and the agreement is excellent.


Ground state of a polydisperse electrorheological solid: Beyond the
  dipole approximation

  The ground state of an electrorheological (ER) fluid has been studied based
on our recently proposed dipole-induced dipole (DID) model. We obtained an
analytic expression of the interaction between chains of particles which are of
the same or different dielectric constants. The effects of dielectric constants
on the structure formation in monodisperse and polydisperse electrorheological
fluids are studied in a wide range of dielectric contrasts between the
particles and the base fluid. Our results showed that the established
body-centered tetragonal ground state in monodisperse ER fluids may become
unstable due to a polydispersity in the particle dielectric constants. While
our results agree with that of the fully multipole theory, the DID model is
much simpler, which offers a basis for computer simulations in polydisperse ER
fluids.


First-principles approach to dielectric response of graded spherical
  particles

  We have studied the effective response of composites of spherical particles
each having a dielectric profile which varies along the radius of the
particles. We developed a first-principles approach to compute the dipole
moment of the individual spherical particle and hence the effective dielectric
response of a dilute suspension. The approach has been applied to two model
dielectric profiles, for which exact solutions are available. Moreover, we used
the exact results to validate the results from the differential effective
dipole approximation, recently developed to treat graded spherical particles of
an arbitrary dielectric profile. Excellent agreement between the two approaches
were obtained. While the focus of this work has been on dielectric responses,
the approach is equally applicable to analogous systems such as the
conductivity and elastic problems.


Optical nonlinearity enhancement of graded metallic films

  The effective linear and third-order nonlinear susceptibility of graded
metallic films with weak nonlinearity have been investigated. Due to the simple
geometry, we were able to derive exactly the local field inside the graded
structures having a Drude dielectric gradation profile. We calculated the
effective linear dielectric constant and third-order nonlinear susceptibility.
We investigated the surface plasmon resonant effect on the optical absorption,
optical nonlinearity enhancement, and figure of merit of graded metallic films.
It is found that the presence of gradation in metallic films yields a broad
resonant plasmon band in the optical region, resulting in a large enhancement
of the optical nonlinearity and hence a large figure of merit. We suggest
experiments be done to check our theoretical predictions, because graded
metallic films can be fabricated more easily than graded particles.


Dielectric behaviour of graded spherical cells with an intrinsic
  dispersion

  The dielectric properties of single-shell spherical cells with an intrinsic
dielectric dispersion has been investigated. By means of the dielectric
dispersion spectral representation (DDSR) for the Clausius-Mossotti (CM)
factor, we express the dispersion strengths as well as the characteristic
frequencies of the CM factor analytically in terms of the parameters of the
cell model. These analytic expressions enable us to assess the influence of
various model parameters on the electrokinetics of cells. Various interesting
behaviours have been reported. We extend our considerations to a more realistic
cell model with a graded core, which can have spatial gradients in the
conductivity and/or permittivity. To this end, we address the effects of a
graded profile in a small-gradient expansion in the framework of DDSR.


Effective conductivity of composites of graded spherical particles

  We have employed the first-principles approach to compute the effective
response of composites of graded spherical particles of arbitrary conductivity
profiles. We solve the boundary-value problem for the polarizability of the
graded particles and obtain the dipole moment as well as the multipole moments.
We provide a rigorous proof of an {\em ad hoc} approximate method based on the
differential effective multipole moment approximation (DEMMA) in which the
differential effective dipole approximation (DEDA) is a special case. The
method will be applied to an exactly solvable graded profile. We show that DEDA
and DEMMA are indeed exact for graded spherical particles.


Giant enhanced optical nonlinearity of colloidal nanocrystals with a
  graded-index host

  The effective linear and third-order nonlinear optical properties of metallic
colloidal crystal immersed in a graded-index host fluid are investigated
theoretically. The local electric fields are extracted self-consistently based
on the layer-to-layer interactions, which are readily given by the Lekner
summation method. The resultant optical absorption and nonlinearity enhancement
show a series of sharp peaks, which merge in a broadened resonant band. The
sharp peaks become a continuous band for increasing packing density and number
of layers. We believe that the sharp peaks arise from the in-plane dipolar
interactions and the surface plasmon resonance, whereas the continuous band is
due to the presence of the gradient in the host refractive index. These results
have not been observed in homogeneous and randomly-dispersed colloids, and thus
would be of great interest in optical nanomaterial engineering.


Algorithms for polynomials in two variables

  Vladimir Shpilrain and Jie-Tai Yu have asked for an effective algorithm to
decide if two elements of C[x,y] are related by an automorphism of C[x,y]. We
describe here an efficient algorithm that decides this question and finds the
automorphism if it exists. The algorithm is due to the second author, who
described it in terms of Newton polygons, with C replaceable by a field of any
characteristic. Here we describe it in terms of splice diagrams, which gains
some efficiency at cost of generality (it currently applies only to
characteristic zero). Part of the purpose of this paper is to give an
exposition of the use of splice diagrams in studying C[x,y].


Optical response of strongly coupled metal nanoparticles in dimer arrays

  The optical responses of structured array of noble-metal nanoparticle dimers
immersed in a glass matrix are investigated theoretically, motivated by the
recent experimental observation of the splitting of the surface plasmon bands
in silver arrays. To capture the strong electromagnetic coupling between the
two approaching particles in a silver dimer, the spectral representation of the
multiple image formula has been used, and a semiclassical description of the
silver dielectric function is adopted from the literature. The splitting of
plasmon resonance band of the incident longitudinal and transverse polarized
light is found to be strongly dependent on the particle diameter and their
separation. Our results are shown in accord with the recent experimental
observation. Moreover, a large redshift for the longitudinal polarization can
be reproduced. The reflectivity spectrum is further calculated for a dilute
suspension of dimer arrays.


Tunable photonic Bloch oscillations in electrically modulated photonic
  crystals

  We exploit theoretically the occurrence and tunability of photonic Bloch
oscillations (PBOs) in one-dimensional photonic crystals (PCs) containing
nonlinear composites. Because of the enhanced third-order nonlinearity (Kerr
type nonlinearity) of composites, photons undergo oscillations inside tilted
photonic bands, which are achieved by the application of graded external pump
electric fields on such PCs, varying along the direction perpendicular to the
surface of layers. The tunability of PBOs (including amplitude and period) is
readily achieved by changing the field gradient. With an appropriate graded
pump AC or DC electric field, terahertz PBOs can appear and cover a terahertz
band in electromagnetic spectrum.


Localization of electric field distribution in graded core-shell
  metamaterials

  The local electric field distribution has been investigated in a core-shell
cylindrical metamaterial structure under the illumination of a uniform incident
optical field. The structure consists of a homogeneous dielectric core, a shell
of graded metal-dielectric metamaterial, embedded in a uniform matrix. In the
quasi-static limit, the permittivity of the metamaterial is given by the graded
Drude model. The local electric potentials and hence the electric fields have
been derived exactly and analytically in terms of hyper-geometric functions.
Our results showed that the peak of the electric field inside the cylindrical
shell can be confined in a desired position by varying the frequency of the
optical field and the parameters of the graded profiles. Thus, by fabricating
graded metamaterials, it is possible to control electric field distribution
spatially. We offer an intuitive explanation for the gradation-controlled
electric field distribution.


Tunable Localization and Oscillation of Coupled Plasmon Waves in Graded
  Plasmonic Chains

  The localization (confinement) of coupled plasmon modes, named as gradons,
has been studied in metal nanoparticle chains immersed in a graded dielectric
host. We exploited the time evolution of various initial wavepackets formed by
the linear combination of the coupled modes. We found an important interplay
between the localization of plasmonic gradons and the oscillation in such
graded plasmonic chains. Unlike in optical superlattices, gradient cannot
always lead to Bloch oscillations, which can only occur for wavepackets
consisting of particular types of gradons. Moreover, the wavepackets will
undergo different forms of oscillations. The correspondence can be applied to
design a variety of optical devices by steering among various oscillations.


Steering between Bloch oscillation and dipole oscillation in parabolic
  optical waveguide arrays

  We study the optical oscillations of supermodes in planar optical waveguide
arrays with parabolically graded propagation constant in individual waveguide
interacting through nearest neighbor couplings. In these arrays, we have
identified a transition between a symmetric dipole oscillation (DO) and a
symmetry-breaking Bloch oscillation (BO) under appropriate conditions. There
exist obvious correspondences between gradon localization and various optical
oscillations. By virtue of an analogue between the oscillation of optical
system and that of a plane pendulum, we propose a shift of the graded profile
to cause a transition from BO to DO. We confirm the optical transition by means
of Hamiltonian optics, as well as by the field evolution of the supermodes. The
results offer great potential applications in optical switching, which can be
applied to design suitable optical devices.


Tunable Hybridization at Mid Zone and Anomalous Bloch-Zener Oscillations
  in Optical Waveguide Ladders

  We have studied the optical oscillation and tunneling of light waves in
optical waveguide ladders formed by two coupled planar optical waveguide
arrays. For the band structure, a mid-zone gap is formed due to band
hybridization and its wavenumber position can be tuned throughout the whole
Brillouin zone, which is different from the Bragg gap. By imposing a gradient
in the propagation constant in each array, Bloch-Zener oscillation (BZO) is
realized with Zener tunneling between the bands occurring at mid zone, which is
contrary to the common BZO with tunneling at the center or edge of the
Brillouin zone. The occurrence of BZO is demonstrated by using the
field-evolution analysis. The tunable hybridization at mid zone enhances the
tunability of BZO in the optical waveguide ladders. This work is of general and
fundamental importance in understanding the coherent phenomena in lattice
structures.


Photonic Bloch-dipole-Zener Oscillations in Binary Parabolic Optical
  Waveguide Arrays

  We have studied the propagation and Zener tunneling of light in the binary
parabolic optical waveguide array (BPOWA), which consists of two evanescently
coupled dissimilar optical waveguides. Due to Bragg reflections, BPOWA attains
two minibands separated by a minigap at the zone boundary. Various coherent
superpositions of optical oscillations and Zener tunneling occur for different
parameters on the phase diagram. In particular, Bloch-Zener oscillation and a
different type of Bloch-dipole-Zener oscillation are obtained by the
field-evolution analysis. The results may have potential applications in
optical splitting and waveguiding devices and shed light on the coherent
phenomena in optical lattices.


Superconductivity of topological insulator Bi2Se3 at high pressures

  The pressure induced superconductivity and structural evolution for Bi2Se3
single crystal have been studied. The emergence of superconductivity with onset
transition temperature (Tc) about 4.4K is observed around 12GPa. Tc increases
rapidly to the highest 8.5K at 16GPa, decreases to 6.5K at 21GPa, then keep
almost constant. It is found that Tc versus pressure is closely related to the
carrier density which increases by more than two orders of magnitude from 2GPa
to 23GPa. High pressure synchrotron radiation measurements reveal structure
transitions occur around 12GPa, 20GPa, and above 29GPa, respectively. A phase
diagram of superconductivity versus pressure is obtained.


Nondiffractive feature of $γN\to ρ^\pm N$ with $ρ$-meson
  electromagnetic multipole moments

  We investigate photoproduction of charged $\rho$ off the nucleon using
$\rho(770)+\pi(140)$ Regge pole exchanges by considering the $\rho$-meson
electromagnetic multipole moments. The significance of the Ward identity at the
$\gamma\rho\rho$ vertex is emphasized for current conservation in the process.
Given $\pi$ exchange with the well-known coupling constants for $\gamma\pi\rho$
and $\pi NN$, we analyze the role of the $\rho$ exchange in the $\gamma p\to
\rho^+n$ and $\gamma n\to\rho^-p$ processes without model-dependences except
for the magnetic moment $\mu_{\rho^\pm}=\pm2.01$ and electric quadrupole moment
${\cal Q}_{\rho^\pm}=\pm0.027$ fm$^2$ taken from theoretical estimates. The
nondiffractive feature of both cross sections is reproduced with a rapid
decrease beyond the resonance region by the dominance of $\pi$ exchange over
the $\rho$\,. % Cross sections for differential and density matrix elements are
presented to compare with existing data. The parity and photon polarization
asymmetries are predicted to demonstrate the apparent roles of the $\rho$-meson
electromagnetic multipole moments.


Regge approach to the reaction of $γN \to K^* Λ$

  Photoproduction of $K^*$ vector mesons off nucleon is investigated within the
Regge framework where the electromagnetic vertex of $\gamma K^*K^*$ fully takes
into account the magnetic dipole and electric quadrupole moments of spin-1
$K^*$ vector meson. The $t$-channel $K^*(892)$, $K(494)$ and $\kappa(800)$
meson exchanges are considered for the analysis of the production mechanism.
The experimentally observed rapid decrease of the cross sections for the
$\gamma p \to K^{*+} \Lambda$ reaction beyond the resonance region is well
reproduced by the dominance of the exchange of $K$-meson trajectory. The role
of the scalar $\kappa$-meson trajectory is found to be minor in both $\gamma p$
and $\gamma n$ reactions. The cross sections for the $\gamma n \to K^{*0}
\Lambda$ reaction are predicted to be about twice those of the $\gamma p \to
K^{*+}\Lambda$ reaction. The role of the $K^*$ electromagnetic multipoles and
the proton anomalous magnetic moment is studied through the total and
differential cross sections and spin/parity asymmetries. We suggest the
measurement of the photon polarization asymmetry as a tool for identifying the
role of the magnetic dipole and electric quadrupole moments of the $K^*$ vector
meson.


Role of $σ$ exchange in the $γp\to φp$ process and
  scaling with the $f_1$ axial vector meson from a Reggeized model

  We investigate the role driven by the scalar meson $\sigma$ exchange in the
photoproduction of the vector meson $\phi$(1020) off a proton by using a
Reggeized model. Based on the $\pi^0(135)+\sigma(500)+f_2(1270)$+Pomeron
exchanges, we demonstrate that the $\sigma$ exchange plays the role to
reproduce the bump structure at the forward angle in the differential cross
section as well as the peaking behavior in the total cross section observed in
the CLAS Collaboration. We also discuss the possible observation of the scaled
cross section $s^7d\sigma /dt$ at the production angle $\theta=90^{\circ}$ from
the CLAS data. It is found that the axial vector meson $f_1(1285)$ exchange
with the trajectory $\alpha_{f_1}(t)=0.028\,t+0.9\pm0.2$ arising from the axial
anomaly of the QCD vacuum plays the role to clarify the scaling up to 5 GeV.


The Reggeized model for $γp \to ρ^- Δ^{++}(1232)$
  photoproduction

  We construct a model for the reaction process $\gamma p\to\rho^-\Delta^{++}$
by utilizing the Reggeization of the $t$-channel meson exchange and present the
analysis of the existing data at high energies. Based on the simple $\pi+\rho$
exchanges where the $t$-channel $\rho$ exchange is conserved with the
$u$-channel $\Delta$-pole in addition to the $s$-channel proton pole and the
contact term, we discuss the convergence of the reaction cross section at high
energy in association with the gauge prescription for the $u$-channel
$\Delta$-pole as well as the proton-pole in the $s$-channel. The roles of the
electromagnetic (EM) multipole moments of the $\Delta$-baryon and $\rho$-meson
are analyzed. The agreement of the present calculation with the data of total
and differential cross sections and spin density matrix elements for the
$\gamma p\to \rho^-\Delta^{++}$ process are shown. Model predictions for the
measurements of the electromagnetic moments of the $\rho$ and $\Delta$ are
given to the photon polarization asymmetry.


Photoproduction of $γN\to K^+ Σ^*(1385)$ in the Reggeized
  framework

  Photoproduction of $ K\Sigma^{*}(1385)$ on the nucleon is investigated within
the Regge framework and the reaction mechanism is analyzed based on the data
existing in the channels $\gamma p\to K^+\Sigma^{*0}$ and $\gamma n\to
K^+\Sigma^{*-}$. The Reggeization of the $t$-channel meson exchanges
$K(494)+K^*(892)+K_2^*(1430)$ is employed to construct the photoproduction
amplitude. The Rarita-Schwinger formalism is applied for the spin-3/2$^+$
strangeness-baryon $\Sigma^*$ with a special gauge prescription utilized for
the convergence of these reaction processes. Within a set of coupling constants
determined from the symmetry arguement for the $K$ and $K^*$ and from the
duality and vector dominance for the $K_2^*$, the data of the both processes
are reproduced to a good degree. The production mechanism of these processes
are featured by the dominance of the contact term plus the $K$ exchange with
the role of the $K_2^*$ following rather than the $K^*$.


Sparse Wavelet Estimation in Quantile Regression with Multiple
  Functional Predictors

  In this manuscript, we study quantile regression in partial functional linear
model where response is scalar and predictors include both scalars and multiple
functions. Wavelet basis are adopted to better approximate functional slopes
while effectively detect local features. The sparse group lasso penalty is
imposed to select important functional predictors while capture shared
information among them. The estimation problem can be reformulated into a
standard second-order cone program and then solved by an interior point method.
We also give a novel algorithm by using alternating direction method of
multipliers (ADMM) which was recently employed by many researchers in solving
penalized quantile regression problems. The asymptotic properties such as the
convergence rate and prediction error bound have been established. Simulations
and a real data from ADHD-200 fMRI data are investigated to show the
superiority of our proposed method.


An Alternative Approach to Functional Linear Partial Quantile Regression

  We have previously proposed the partial quantile regression (PQR) prediction
procedure for functional linear model by using partial quantile covariance
techniques and developed the simple partial quantile regression (SIMPQR)
algorithm to efficiently extract PQR basis for estimating functional
coefficients. However, although the PQR approach is considered as an attractive
alternative to projections onto the principal component basis, there are
certain limitations to uncovering the corresponding asymptotic properties
mainly because of its iterative nature and the non-differentiability of the
quantile loss function. In this article, we propose and implement an
alternative formulation of partial quantile regression (APQR) for functional
linear model by using block relaxation method and finite smoothing techniques.
The proposed reformulation leads to insightful results and motivates new
theory, demonstrating consistency and establishing convergence rates by
applying advanced techniques from empirical process theory. Two simulations and
two real data from ADHD-200 sample and ADNI are investigated to show the
superiority of our proposed methods.


Regge phenomenology of photoproduction of $π^-Δ^{++}$ and scaling
  with saturation of trajectory

  In this work we investigate the reaction $\gamma p\to\pi^-\Delta^{++}$ in the
Reggeized model for $\pi(138)+\rho(775)+a_2(1320)$ exchanges in the
$t$-channel. For a convergence of the reaction cross section at high energies
the minimal forms of proton and $\Delta^{++}$ exchanges are introduced in the
direct and crossed channels for gauge invariance of $\pi$ Regge-pole exchange.
The role of spin-2 tensor meson $a_2$ is found to be crucial to agree with
existing data at high energies. Electromagnetic multipoles of $\Delta^{++}$
baryon are analyzed in the $\Delta$ resonance region. Based on the constituents
counting rule the scaled differential cross section at $E_\gamma=4$ GeV is
reproduced with the Regge trajectory saturated at large momentum transfer $-t$.


Multi-level Attention Model for Weakly Supervised Audio Classification

  In this paper, we propose a multi-level attention model to solve the weakly
labelled audio classification problem. The objective of audio classification is
to predict the presence or absence of audio events in an audio clip. Recently,
Google published a large scale weakly labelled dataset called Audio Set, where
each audio clip contains only the presence or absence of the audio events,
without the onset and offset time of the audio events. Our multi-level
attention model is an extension to the previously proposed single-level
attention model. It consists of several attention modules applied on
intermediate neural network layers. The output of these attention modules are
concatenated to a vector followed by a multi-label classifier to make the final
prediction of each class. Experiments shown that our model achieves a mean
average precision (mAP) of 0.360, outperforms the state-of-the-art single-level
attention model of 0.327 and Google baseline of 0.314.


