Corrections to "Wyner's Common Information under Rényi Divergence
  Measures"

  In this correspondence, we correct an erroneous argument in the proof of
Theorem 1 of the paper above, which is a statement generalizing that for
Wyner's common information.


On Conditional Correlations

  The Pearson correlation, correlation ratio, and maximal correlation have been
well-studied in the literature. In this paper, we studied the conditional
versions of these quantities. We extend the most important properties of the
unconditional versions to the conditional versions, and also derive some new
properties.


Bounds on the Average Distance and Distance Enumerator with Applications
  to Non-Interactive Simulation

  We leverage proof techniques in coding theory and Fourier analysis to derive
new bounds for the problem of non-interactive simulation of random variables.
Previous bounds in the literature were derived by applying data processing
inequalities concerning maximal correlation or hypercontractivity. We show that
our bounds are sharp in some regimes, and are also tighter than the existing
ones in some other regimes. Furthermore, as by-products of our analyses,
various new properties of the average distance and distance enumerator of
binary block codes are established.


Strong magneto-optical response enabled by quantum two level systems

  The magneto-optical effect breaks time-reversal symmetry, a unique property
that makes it indispensable in nonreciprocal optics and topological photonics.
Unfortunately, all natural materials have a rather weak magneto-optical
response in the optical frequency range, posing a significant challenge to the
practical application of many emerging device concepts. Here we theoretically
propose a composite material system that exhibits an intrinsic magneto-optical
response orders of magnitude stronger than most magneto-optical materials used
today. This is achieved by tailoring the resonant interplay between the quantum
electrodynamics of electronic transitions in two-level systems and the
classical electromagnetic response of local plasmon resonance.


Strategy for designing broadband epsilon-near-zero metamaterial with
  loss compensation by gain media

  A strategy is proposed to design the broadband gain-doped epsilon-near-zero
(GENZ) metamaterial. Based on the Milton representation of effective
permittivity, the strategy starts in a dimensionless spectral space, where the
effective permittivity of GENZ metamaterial is simply determined by a pole-zero
structure corresponding to the operating frequency range. The physical
structure of GENZ metamaterial is retrieved from the pole-zero structure via a
tractable inverse problem. The strategy is of great advantage in practical
applications and also theoretically reveals the cancellation mechanism
dominating the broadband near-zero permittivity phenomenon in the spectral
space.


Experimental evidence of optical analogue of electromagnetically induced
  transparency in graphene

  We demonstrate the first experimental observation of coherent population
oscillation, an optical analogue of electromagnetically induced transparency,
in graphene based on phase sensitive pump-probe system. Degenerate
four-wave-mixing between pump and probe modifies the dispersion and absorption
of the population oscillation process in graphene, and leads to enhance and
depression of modulation instability with asymmetry in frequency. The
analytically predicted asymmetrical burning hole fully consists with the
experiments.


Analysis of Spreading Speeds with an Application to Cellular Neural
  Networks

  In this paper, we focus on some properties of the spreading speeds which can
be estimated by linear operators approach, such as the sign, the continuity and
a limiting case which admits no spreading phenomenon. These theoretical results
are well applied to study the effect of templates on propagation speeds for
cellular neural networks (CNNs), which admit three kinds of propagating
phenomenon.


Integrated optical devices based on broadband epsilon-near-zero
  meta-atoms

  We verify the feasibility of the proposed theoretical strategy for designing
the broadband near-zero permittivity (ENZ) metamaterial at optical frequency
range with numerical simulations. In addition, the designed broadband ENZ stack
are used as meta-atoms to build functional nanophotonic devices with
extraordinary properties, including an ultranarrow electromagnetic energy
tunneling channel and an ENZ concave focusing lens.


Electric control of spin in monolayer WSe2 field effect transistors

  We report a first principles theoretical investigation of quantum transport
in monolayer WSe2 field effect transistor (FET). Due to a strong spin-orbit
interaction (SOI) and the atomic structure of the two-dimensional (2D) lattice,
monolayer WSe2 has an interesting electronic structure that exhibits
Zeeman-like up-down spin texture near the K and K' points of the Brillouin
zone. In a FET, the gate electric field induces an extra, externally tunable
SOI that re-orients the spins into a Rashba-like texture thereby realizing
electric control of the spin. Quantum transport is modulated by the spin
texture, namely by if the spin orientation of the carrier after the gated
channel region, matches or miss-matches that of the FET drain electrode. The
carrier current in the FET is labelled both the spin index and the valley
index, realizing spintronics and valleytronics in the same device.


Fiber based source of photon pairs at telecom band with high temporal
  coherence and brightness for quantum information processing

  We experimentally demonstrate a bright pulsed source of correlated photon
pairs at 1550 nm telecom band by pumping 300 m dispersion shifted fiber with a
4 ps pulse train. We investigate the coherence property of the source by
measuring the second order intensity correlation function $g^{(2)}$ of
individual signal (idler) photons. A preliminary Hong-Ou-Mandel type two-photon
interference experiment with two such sources confirms the high temporal and
spatial coherence of the source. The source is suitable for multi-photon
quantum interference of independent sources, required in quantum information
processing.


Existence of global weak solutions for the
  Navier-Stokes-Vlasov-Boltzmann equations

  A moderately thick spray can be described by a coupled system of equations
consisting of the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations and the
Vlasov-Boltzmann equation. We investigate this kind of mathematical model in
this paper. In particular, we study the initial value problem for the
Navier-Stokes-Vlasov-Boltzmann equations. The existence of global weak
solutions is established by a weak convergence method.
  The interesting point of our main result is to handle the model with some
breakup effects while the velocity of particles is in the whole space.


On mean field limit for Brownian particles with Coulomb interaction in
  3D

  In this paper, we consider the mean field limit of Brownian particles with
Coulomb interaction in 3D space. In particular, using a symmetrization
technique, we show that the limit measure almost surely is a weak solution to
the limiting nonlinear Fokker-Planck equation. By proving that the energy
almost surely is bounded by the initial energy, we improve the regularity of
the weak solutions. Moreover, by a natural assumption, we establish the weak
strong uniqueness principle, which is closely related to the propagation of
chaos.


On Singularity Formation of a Nonlinear Nonlocal System

  We investigate the singularity formation of a nonlinear nonlocal system. This
nonlocal system is a simplified one-dimensional system of the 3D model that was
recently proposed by Hou and Lei in [13] for axisymmetric 3D incompressible
Navier-Stokes equations with swirl. The main difference between the 3D model of
Hou and Lei and the reformulated 3D Navier-Stokes equations is that the
convection term is neglected in the 3D model. In the nonlocal system we
consider in this paper, we replace the Riesz operator in the 3D model by the
Hilbert transform. One of the main results of this paper is that we prove
rigorously the finite time singularity formation of the nonlocal system for a
large class of smooth initial data with finite energy. We also prove the global
regularity for a class of smooth initial data. Numerical results will be
presented to demonstrate the asymptotically self-similar blow-up of the
solution. The blowup rate of the self-similar singularity of the nonlocal
system is similar to that of the 3D model.


SBV-like regularity for general hyperbolic systems of conservation laws

  We prove the SBV regularity of the characteristic speed of the scalar
hyperbolic conservation law and SBV-like regularity of the eigenvalue functions
of the Jacobian matrix of flux function for general systems of conservation
laws.
  More precisely, for the equation u_t + f(u)_x = 0, \quad u : \R^+ \times \R
\to \Omega \subset \R^N, we only assume the flux $f$ is $C^2$ function in the
scalar case (N=1) and Jacobian matrix $Df$ has distinct real eigenvalues in the
system case $(N\geq 2)$. Using the modification of the main decay estimate in
Lau and localization method applied in \cite{R}, we show that for the scalar
equation $f'(u)$ belongs to SBV, and for system of conservation laws the scalar
measure \[\big(D_u \lambda_i(u) \cdot r_i(u) \big) \big(l_i(u) \cdot u_x \big)]
has no Cantor part, where $\lambda_i$, $r_i$, $l_i$ are the $i$-th eigenvalue,
$i$-th right eigenvector and $i$-th left eigenvector of the matrix $Df$.


Global structure of admissible BV solutions to piecewise genuinely
  nonlinear, strictly hyperbolic conservation laws in one space dimension

  The paper gives an accurate description of the qualitative structure of an
admissible BV solution to a strictly hyperbolic, piecewise genuinely nonlinear
system of conservation laws. We prove that there are a countable set $\Theta$
which contains all interaction points and a family of countably many Lipschitz
curves $\T$ such that outside $\T\cup \Theta$ $u$ is continuous, and along the
curves in $\T$, u has left and right limit except for points in $\Theta$. This
extends the corresponding structural result in \cite{BL,Liu1} for admissible
solutions.
  The proof is based on approximate wave-front tracking solutions and a proper
selection of discontinuity curves in the approximate solutions, which converge
to curves covering the discontinuities in the exact solution $u$.


Liquid marbles as thermally robust droplets: coating-assisted
  Leidenfrost-like effect

  The Leidenfrost effect-prolonged evaporation of droplets on a superheated
surface-happens only when the surface temperature is above a certain
transitional value. Here, we show that specially engineered droplets - liquid
marbles - can exhibit similar effect at any superheated temperatures (up to 465
oC tested in our experiment) without a transition. Very possibly, this
phenomenon is due to the fact that liquid marbles are droplets coated with
microparticles and these microparticles help levitate the liquid core and
maintain an insulation layer between the liquid and the superheated surface.


Deep Learning for Answer Sentence Selection

  Answer sentence selection is the task of identifying sentences that contain
the answer to a given question. This is an important problem in its own right
as well as in the larger context of open domain question answering. We propose
a novel approach to solving this task via means of distributed representations,
and learn to match questions with answers by considering their semantic
encoding. This contrasts prior work on this task, which typically relies on
classifiers with large numbers of hand-crafted syntactic and semantic features
and various external resources. Our approach does not require any feature
engineering nor does it involve specialist linguistic data, making this model
easily applicable to a wide range of domains and languages. Experimental
results on a standard benchmark dataset from TREC demonstrate that---despite
its simplicity---our model matches state of the art performance on the answer
sentence selection task.


Distortion Bounds for Source Broadcast Problems

  This paper investigates the joint source-channel coding problem of sending a
memoryless source over a memoryless broadcast channel. An inner bound and
several outer bounds on the admissible distortion region are derived, which
respectively generalize and unify several existing bounds. As a consequence, we
also obtain an inner bound and an outer bound for the degraded broadcast
channel case. When specialized to the Gaussian or binary source broadcast, the
inner bound and outer bound not only recover the best known inner bound and
outer bound in the literature, but also generate some new results. Besides, we
also extend the inner bound and outer bounds to the Wyner-Ziv source broadcast
problem, i.e., source broadcast with side information available at decoders.
Some new bounds are obtained when specialized to the Wyner-Ziv Gaussian and
Wyner-Ziv binary cases.


Distortion Bounds for Transmitting Correlated Sources with Common Part
  over MAC

  This paper investigates the joint source-channel coding problem of sending
two correlated memoryless sources with common part over a memoryless multiple
access channel (MAC). An inner bound and two outer bounds on the achievable
distortion region are derived. In particular, they respectively recover the
existing bounds for several special cases, such as communication without common
part, lossless communication, and noiseless communication. When specialized to
quadratic Gaussian communication case, transmitting Gaussian sources with
Gaussian common part over Gaussian MAC, the inner bound and outer bound are
used to generate two new bounds. Numerical result shows that common part
improves the distortion of such distributed source-channel coding problem.


Local exact boundary controllability of entropy solutions to a class of
  hyperbolic systems of conservation laws

  In this paper, we study the local exact boundary controllability of entropy
solutions to a class linearly degenerate hyperbolic systems of conservation
laws with constant multiplicity. The authors prove the two-sided boundary
controllability, one-sided boundary controllability and two-sided
controllability with less controls, by applying the strategy used originally
for classical solutions with essential modifications. Our constructive method
is based on the well-posedness of semi-global solutions constructed by the
limit of $ \e $-approximate front tracking solutions to the mixed
initial-boundary value problem with general nonlinear boundary conditions and
some further properties on both $ \e $-approximate front tracking solutions and
entropy solutions.


Comments on "Approximate Characterizations for the Gaussian Source
  Broadcast Distortion Region"

  Recently, Tian et al. [1] considered joint source-channel coding of
transmitting a Gaussian source over $K$-user Gaussian broadcast channel, and
derived an outer bound on the admissible distortion region. In [1], they stated
"due to its nonlinear form, it appears difficult to determine whether it is
always looser than the trivial outer bound in all distortion regimes with
bandwidth compression". However, in this correspondence we solve this problem
and prove that for the bandwidth expansion case ($K\geq2$), this outer bound is
strictly tighter than the trivial outer bound with each user being optimal in
the point-to-point setting; while for the bandwidth compression or bandwidth
match case, this outer bound actually degenerates to the trivial outer bound.
Therefore, our results imply that on one hand, the outer bound given in [1] is
nontrivial only for Gaussian broadcast communication ($K\geq2$) with bandwidth
expansion; on the other hand, unfortunately, no nontrivial outer bound exists
so far for Gaussian broadcast communication ($K\geq2$) with bandwidth
compression.


Online Segment to Segment Neural Transduction

  We introduce an online neural sequence to sequence model that learns to
alternate between encoding and decoding segments of the input as it is read. By
independently tracking the encoding and decoding representations our algorithm
permits exact polynomial marginalization of the latent segmentation during
training, and during decoding beam search is employed to find the best
alignment path together with the predicted output sequence. Our model tackles
the bottleneck of vanilla encoder-decoders that have to read and memorize the
entire input sequence in their fixed-length hidden states before producing any
output. It is different from previous attentive models in that, instead of
treating the attention weights as output of a deterministic function, our model
assigns attention weights to a sequential latent variable which can be
marginalized out and permits online generation. Experiments on abstractive
sentence summarization and morphological inflection show significant
performance gains over the baseline encoder-decoders.


Generalized Common Informations: Measuring Commonness by the Conditional
  Maximal Correlation

  In literature, different common informations were defined by G\'acs and
K\"orner, by Wyner, and by Kumar, Li, and Gamal, respectively. In this paper,
we define two generalized versions of common informations, named approximate
and exact information-correlation functions, by exploiting the conditional
maximal correlation as a commonness or privacy measure. These two generalized
common informations encompass the notions of G\'acs-K\"orner's, Wyner's, and
Kumar-Li-Gamal's common informations as special cases. Furthermore, to give
operational characterizations of these two generalized common informations, we
also study the problems of private sources synthesis and common information
extraction, and show that the information-correlation functions are equal to
the minimum rates of commonness needed to ensure that some conditional maximal
correlation constraints are satisfied for the centralized setting versions of
these problems. As a byproduct, the conditional maximal correlation has been
studied as well.


The Neural Noisy Channel

  We formulate sequence to sequence transduction as a noisy channel decoding
problem and use recurrent neural networks to parameterise the source and
channel models. Unlike direct models which can suffer from explaining-away
effects during training, noisy channel models must produce outputs that explain
their inputs, and their component models can be trained with not only paired
training samples but also unpaired samples from the marginal output
distribution. Using a latent variable to control how much of the conditioning
sequence the channel model needs to read in order to generate a subsequent
symbol, we obtain a tractable and effective beam search decoder. Experimental
results on abstractive sentence summarisation, morphological inflection, and
machine translation show that noisy channel models outperform direct models,
and that they significantly benefit from increased amounts of unpaired output
data that direct models cannot easily use.


Optical puff mediated laminar-turbulent polarization transition

  Various physical structures exhibit a fundamentally probabilistic nature over
diverse scales in space and time, to the point that the demarcation line
between quantum and classic laws gets blurred. Here, we characterize the
probability of intermittency in the laminar-turbulence transition of a
partially mode-locked fiber laser system, whose degree of coherence is
deteriorated by multiple mode mixing. Two competing processes, namely the
proliferation and the decay of an optical turbulent puff, determine a critical
behavior for the onset of turbulence in such a nonlinear dissipative system. A
new kind of optical rogue waves, polarization rogue waves, is introduced at the
point of transition to polarization turbulence. The probabilistic description
of the puff-mediated laminar-turbulence polarization transition provides an
additional degree of freedom for our understanding of the complex physics of
lasers.


Wyner's Common Information under Rényi Divergence Measures

  We study a generalized version of Wyner's common information problem (also
coined the distributed sources simulation problem). The original common
information problem consists in understanding the minimum rate of the common
input to independent processors to generate an approximation of a joint
distribution when the distance measure used to quantify the discrepancy between
the synthesized and target distributions is the normalized relative entropy.
Our generalization involves changing the distance measure to the unnormalized
and normalized R\'enyi divergences of order $\alpha=1+s\in[0,2]$. We show that
the minimum rate needed to ensure the R\'enyi divergences between the
distribution induced by a code and the target distribution vanishes remains the
same as the one in Wyner's setting, except when the order $\alpha=1+s=0$. This
implies that Wyner's common information is rather robust to the choice of
distance measure employed. As a by product of the proofs used to the establish
the above results, the exponential strong converse for the common information
problem under the total variation distance measure is established.


Local exact one-sided boundary null controllability of entropy solutions
  to a class of hyperbolic systems of balance laws

  We consider nxn hyperbolic systems of balance laws in one-space dimension
under the assumption that all negative (resp. positive) characteristics are
linearly degenerate. We prove the local exact one-sided boundary null
controllability of entropy solutions to this class of systems, which
generalizes the corresponding results from the case without source terms to
that with source terms. In order to apply the strategy used for conservation
law, we essentially modify the constructive method by introducing two different
kinds of approximate solutions to system in the forward sense and to the system
in the rightward (resp. leftward) sense, respectively, and we prove that their
limit solutions are equivalent to some extend.


Beyond the Central Limit Theorem: Universal and Non-universal
  Simulations of Random Variables by General Mappings

  Motivated by the Central Limit Theorem, in this paper, we study both
universal and non-universal simulations of random variables with an arbitrary
target distribution $Q_{Y}$ by general mappings, not limited to linear ones (as
in the Central Limit Theorem). We derive the fastest convergence rate of the
approximation errors for such problems. Interestingly, we show that for
discontinuous or absolutely continuous $P_{X}$, the approximation error for the
universal simulation is almost as small as that for the non-universal one; and
moreover, for both universal and non-universal simulations, the approximation
errors by general mappings are strictly smaller than those by linear mappings.
Furthermore, we also generalize these results to simulation from Markov
processes, and simulation of random elements (or general random variables).


Sentence Encoding with Tree-constrained Relation Networks

  The meaning of a sentence is a function of the relations that hold between
its words. We instantiate this relational view of semantics in a series of
neural models based on variants of relation networks (RNs) which represent a
set of objects (for us, words forming a sentence) in terms of representations
of pairs of objects. We propose two extensions to the basic RN model for
natural language. First, building on the intuition that not all word pairs are
equally informative about the meaning of a sentence, we use constraints based
on both supervised and unsupervised dependency syntax to control which
relations influence the representation. Second, since higher-order relations
are poorly captured by a sum of pairwise relations, we use a recurrent
extension of RNs to propagate information so as to form representations of
higher order relations. Experiments on sentence classification, sentence pair
classification, and machine translation reveal that, while basic RNs are only
modestly effective for sentence representation, recurrent RNs with latent
syntax are a reliably powerful representational device.


When Collaborative Filtering Meets Reinforcement Learning

  In this paper, we study a multi-step interactive recommendation problem,
where the item recommended at current step may affect the quality of future
recommendations. To address the problem, we develop a novel and effective
approach, named CFRL, which seamlessly integrates the ideas of both
collaborative filtering (CF) and reinforcement learning (RL). More
specifically, we first model the recommender-user interactive recommendation
problem as an agent-environment RL task, which is mathematically described by a
Markov decision process (MDP). Further, to achieve collaborative
recommendations for the entire user community, we propose a novel CF-based MDP
by encoding the states of all users into a shared latent vector space. Finally,
we propose an effective Q-network learning method to learn the agent's optimal
policy based on the CF-based MDP. The capability of CFRL is demonstrated by
comparing its performance against a variety of existing methods on real-world
datasets.


Differentially Private Model Publishing for Deep Learning

  Deep learning techniques based on neural networks have shown significant
success in a wide range of AI tasks. Large-scale training datasets are one of
the critical factors for their success. However, when the training datasets are
crowdsourced from individuals and contain sensitive information, the model
parameters may encode private information and bear the risks of privacy
leakage. The recent growing trend of the sharing and publishing of pre-trained
models further aggravates such privacy risks. To tackle this problem, we
propose a differentially private approach for training neural networks. Our
approach includes several new techniques for optimizing both privacy loss and
model accuracy. We employ a generalization of differential privacy called
concentrated differential privacy(CDP), with both a formal and refined privacy
loss analysis on two different data batching methods. We implement a dynamic
privacy budget allocator over the course of training to improve model accuracy.
Extensive experiments demonstrate that our approach effectively improves
privacy loss accounting, training efficiency and model quality under a given
privacy budget.


The First Pulsar Discovered by FAST

  To assist with the commissioning (Jiang et al. 2019) of the
Five-hundred-meter Aperture Spherical radio Telescope (FAST), we performed a
pulsar search, with the primary goal of developing and testing the pulsar data
acquisition and processing pipelines. We tested and used three pipelines, two
(P1 and P2 hereafter) searched for the periodic signature of pulsars whereas
the other one was used to search for bright single pulses (P3 hereafter). A
pulsar candidate was discovered in the observation on the 22nd August, 2017,
and later confirmed by the Parkes radio telescope on the 10th September, 2017.
This pulsar, named PSR J1900-0134, was the first pulsar discovered by FAST. The
pulsar has a pulse period of 1.8 s and a dispersion measure (DM) of
188\,pc\,cm$^{-3}$.


Some new progress on the light absorption properties of linear alkyl
  benzene solvent

  Linear alkyl benzene (LAB) will be used as the solvent of a liquid
scintillator mixture for the JUNO antineutrino experiment in the near future.
Its light absorption property should therefore be understood prior to its
effective use in the experiment. Attenuation length measurements at a light
wavelength of 430 nm have been performed on samples of LAB prepared for the
purpose of the JUNO experiment. Inorganic impurities in LAB have also been
studied for their possibilities of light absorption in our wavelength of
interest. In view of a tentative plan by the JUNO collaboration to utilize
neutron capture with hydrogen in the detector, we have also presented in this
work, a study on the carbon-hydrogen ratio and the relationship thereof with
the attenuation length of the samples.


The radiation mechanism of fast radio bursts

  Fast radio bursts are radio transients observed mainly around 1.5 GHz. Their
peak frequency decreases at a rate of 100 ~ 500 MHz/s and some of them have a
broader pulse with an exponentially decaying tail. Common assumptions for fast
radio bursts include a dispersion effect resulting in the peak frequency
drifting and a scattering effect resulting in pulse broadening. These
assumptions attribute the abnormally large dispersion measure and scattering
measure to the environmental medium of the host galaxy. Here we show that the
radiation of fast radio bursts can be explained as an undulator radiation and
the large dispersion measure can be due to a motion effect mainly from the
rotation of the source which is probably variable stars. In our scenario, the
pulse broadening is near-field effects and the pulse itself represents a
Fresnel diffraction pattern sweeping the observer. Our work is the first
analysis of properties of fast radio bursts in the context of a special
mechanism of the radiation instead of a special propagation environment of the
radiation.


Phase-resolved spectral analysis of 4U 1901+03 during its outburst

  The high mass X-ray binary 4U 1901+03 was reported to have the pulse profile
evolving with the X-ray luminosity and energy during its outburst in
February-July 2003: the pulse peak changed from double to single along with the
decreasing luminosity. We have carried out a detailed analysis on the
contemporary phase-resolved energy spectrum of 4U 1901+03 as observed by Rossi
X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE). We find that, both the continuum and the pulse
spectra are phase dependent. The optical depth derived from the pulse spectrum
is in general larger than that from the continuum. Fe Ka emission line is only
detected in the spectrum of the continuum and is missing in the pulse spectrum.
This suggests an origin of Fe emission from the accretion disk but not the
surface of the neutron star.


Quantum phase transitions for two coupled sites with dipole-coupled
  effective Jaynes-Cummings model

  The nature of the ground states for a system composed of two coupled cavities
with each containing a pair of dipole-coupled two-level atoms are studied over
a wide range of detunings and dipole coupling strengths. The cases for three
limits of exact resonance, large positive and negative detunings are discussed,
and four types of the ground states are revealed. Then the phase diagrams of
the ground state are plotted by choosing three different "order parameters". We
find that the phase space, determined by the combinative action of detuning and
the dipole coupling strength, is divided into four regions. This is different
from the general Bose-Hubbard model and more richer physics are presented in
the two-site coupled cavities system. That is, the insulator region may be
polaritonic or atomic and the superfluid region may be polaritonic or photonic
in nature.


On the Capacity of the K-User Cyclic Gaussian Interference Channel

  This paper studies the capacity region of a $K$-user cyclic Gaussian
interference channel, where the $k$th user interferes with only the $(k-1)$th
user (mod $K$) in the network. Inspired by the work of Etkin, Tse and Wang,
which derived a capacity region outer bound for the two-user Gaussian
interference channel and proved that a simple Han-Kobayashi power splitting
scheme can achieve to within one bit of the capacity region for all values of
channel parameters, this paper shows that a similar strategy also achieves the
capacity region for the $K$-user cyclic interference channel to within a
constant gap in the weak interference regime. Specifically, a compact
representation of the Han-Kobayashi achievable rate region using
Fourier-Motzkin elimination is first derived, a capacity region outer bound is
then established. It is shown that the Etkin-Tse-Wang power splitting strategy
gives a constant gap of at most two bits (or one bit per dimension) in the weak
interference regime. Finally, the capacity result of the $K$-user cyclic
Gaussian interference channel in the strong interference regime is also given.


Ultra-Thin Double-Walled Carbon Nanotubes A Novel Nanocontainer for
  Preparing Atomic Wires

  Double-walled carbon nanotubes (DWCNTs) with high graphitization have been
synthesized by hydrogen arc discharge. The obtained DWCNTs have a narrow
distribution of diameters of both the inner and outer tubes, and more than half
of the DWCNTs have inner diameters in the range 0.6-1.0 nm. Field electron
emission from a DWCNT cathode to an anode has been measured, and the emission
current density of DWCNTs reached 1 A/cm2 at an applied field of about 4.3
V/{\mu}m. After high-temperature treatment of DWCNTs, long linear carbon chains
(C-chains) can be grown inside the ultra-thin DWCNTs to form a novel
C-chain@DWCNT nanostructure, showing that these ultra-thin DWCNTs are an
appropriate nanocontainer for preparing truly one-dimensional nanostructures
with one-atom-diameter.


The Fundamental Plane Relation of Early-Type Galaxies: Environmental
  Dependence

  Using a sample of 70,793 early-type galaxies from SDSS DR7, we study the
environmental dependence of the fundamental plane relation. With the help of
the galaxy group catalogue based on SDSS DR7, we calculate the fundamental
planes in different dark matter halo mass bins for central and satellite
galaxies respectively. We find the environmental dependence of the fundamental
plane coefficients are similar in $g$, $r$, $i$ and $z$ bands. The
environmental dependence for central and satellite galaxies is significantly
different. While the fundamental plane coefficients of centrals vary
systematically with the halo mass, those of satellites are similar in different
halo mass bins. The discrepancy between centrals and satellites are significant
in small halos, but negligible in the largest halo mass bins. These results
remain the same when we only keep red galaxies, or galaxies with $b/a>0.6$, or
galaxies in a specific radius range in the sample. After the correction of the
sky background, results are still similar. We suggest that the different
environmental effects of the halo mass on centrals and satellites may arise
from the different quenching processes of them.


Capacity of the Gaussian Relay Channel with Correlated Noises to Within
  a Constant Gap

  This paper studies the relaying strategies and the approximate capacity of
the classic three-node Gaussian relay channel, but where the noises at the
relay and at the destination are correlated. It is shown that the capacity of
such a relay channel can be achieved to within a constant gap of $\hf \log_2 3
=0.7925$ bits using a modified version of the noisy network coding strategy,
where the quantization level at the relay is set in a correlation dependent
way. As a corollary, this result establishes that the conventional
compress-and-forward scheme also achieves to within a constant gap to the
capacity. In contrast, the decode-and-forward and the single-tap
amplify-and-forward relaying strategies can have an infinite gap to capacity in
the regime where the noises at the relay and at the destination are highly
correlated, and the gain of the relay-to-destination link goes to infinity.


On Noisy Network Coding for a Gaussian Relay Chain Network with
  Correlated Noises

  Noisy network coding, which elegantly combines the conventional
compress-and-forward relaying strategy and ideas from network coding, has
recently drawn much attention for its simplicity and optimality in achieving to
within constant gap of the capacity of the multisource multicast Gaussian
network. The constant-gap result, however, applies only to Gaussian relay
networks with independent noises. This paper investigates the application of
noisy network coding to networks with correlated noises. By focusing on a
four-node Gaussian relay chain network with a particular noise correlation
structure, it is shown that noisy network coding can no longer achieve to
within constant gap to capacity with the choice of Gaussian inputs and Gaussian
quantization. The cut-set bound of the relay chain network in this particular
case, however, can be achieved to within half a bit by a simple concatenation
of a correlation-aware noisy network coding strategy and a decode-and-forward
scheme.


Electroweak radiative corrections to $W^+W^-γ$ production at the
  ILC

  We provide and discuss the precision predictions for the $W^+W^-\gamma$
production at the ILC including the full electroweak (EW) one-loop corrections
and high order initial state radiation (ISR) contributions in the Standard
Model. The dependence of the leading order (LO) and EW corrected cross sections
on the colliding energy is investigated. We find that the EW correction
suppresses the LO cross section significantly, and the ISR effect beyond ${\cal
O}(\alpha)$ is important near the threshold, but is negligible in the high
energy region. We provide the LO and EW corrected distributions of the
transverse momenta and rapidities of final $W^-$-boson and photon as well as
the $W$-pair invariant mass. From the various kinematic distributions, we find
that EW correction strongly depends on the final state phase space. We
investigate the leptonic decays of the final W-boson pair by adopting the
narrow width approximation (NWA), and find that the final produced photon and
leptons can be well separated from each other.


QCD NLO and EW NLO corrections to $t\bar{t}H$ production with top quark
  decays at hadron collider

  Higgs boson production associated with a top quark pair is an important
process in studying the nature of the newly discovered Higgs boson at the LHC.
In this letter, we report on our calculations including the next-to-leading
order (NLO) QCD and NLO electroweak corrections to the $pp\to t\bar{t}H$
process in the standard model. We present the integrated cross sections at the
$14~{\rm TeV}$ LHC and even at the future proton-proton colliders with
$\sqrt{s}=33$ and $100~{\rm TeV}$. Our calculation includes the top quark
subsequent decays by adopting the narrow width approximation. The kinematic
distributions of Higgs boson and top quark decay products at the LHC are
provided. We find that the ${\cal O}(\alpha_s^2\alpha_{ew}^2)$ corrections are
quantitatively comparable with the ${\cal O}(\alpha_s^3\alpha_{ew})$
corrections in some kinematic region.


Joint Deep Modeling of Users and Items Using Reviews for Recommendation

  A large amount of information exists in reviews written by users. This source
of information has been ignored by most of the current recommender systems
while it can potentially alleviate the sparsity problem and improve the quality
of recommendations. In this paper, we present a deep model to learn item
properties and user behaviors jointly from review text. The proposed model,
named Deep Cooperative Neural Networks (DeepCoNN), consists of two parallel
neural networks coupled in the last layers. One of the networks focuses on
learning user behaviors exploiting reviews written by the user, and the other
one learns item properties from the reviews written for the item. A shared
layer is introduced on the top to couple these two networks together. The
shared layer enables latent factors learned for users and items to interact
with each other in a manner similar to factorization machine techniques.
Experimental results demonstrate that DeepCoNN significantly outperforms all
baseline recommender systems on a variety of datasets.


Unusual magnetic structure of high-pressure synthesized perovskites
  ACrO3(A=Sc, In, Tl)

  Magnetic structures of metastable perovskites ScCrO3, InCrO3 and TlCrO3,
stabilized under high-pressure and high-temperature conditions, have been
studied by neutron powder diffraction. Similar to the other orthochromites
LnCrO3 (Ln=lanthanide or Y), these materials crystallize into the orthorhombic
structure with Pnma10 symmetry. The spin configuration of the metastable
perovskites has been found to be C-type, contrasting with the G-type structure
usually observed in LnCrO3. First-principles calculations demonstrate that the
Ctype structure found in ScCrO3 and InCrO3 is attributed to a ferromagnetic
(FM) nearest-neighbor interaction, while in TlCrO3, this type of magnetic
ordering is stabilized by a strong next-nearest-neighbor antiferromagnetic
(AFM) exchange. The spins in the C-type magnetic structure line up along the
orthorhombic b-axis, yielding the Pnma magnetic symmetry. The dominant
mechanism controlling this spin direction has been concluded to be the single
ion anisotropy imposed by a uniaxial distortion of CrO6 octahedra.


Topological semimetal state and field-induced Fermi surface
  reconstruction in antiferromagnetic monopnictide NdSb

  We report the experimental realization of Dirac semimetal state in NdSb, a
material with antiferromagnetic ground state. The occurrence of topological
semimetal state has been well supported by our band structure calculations and
the experimental observation of chiral anomaly induced negative
magnetoresistance. A field-induced Fermi surface reconstruction is observed, in
response to the change of spin polarization. The observation of topological
semimetal state in a magnetic material provides an opportunity to investigate
the magneto-topological phenomena.


Minimum Enclosing Circle of a Set of Static Points with Dynamic Weight
  from One Free Point

  Given a set $S$ of $n$ static points and a free point $p$ in the Euclidean
plane, we study a new variation of the minimum enclosing circle problem, in
which a dynamic weight that equals to the reciprocal of the distance from the
free point $p$ to the undetermined circle center is included. In this work, we
prove the optimal solution of the new problem is unique and lies on the
boundary of the farthest-point Voronoi diagram of $S$, once $p$ does not
coincide with any vertex of the convex hull of $S$. We propose a tree structure
constructed from the boundary of the farthest-point Voronoi diagram and use the
hierarchical relationship between edges to locate the optimal solution. The
plane could be divide into at most $3n-4$ non-overlapping regions. When $p$
lies in one of the regions, the optimal solution locates at one node or lies on
the interior of one edge in the boundary of the farthest-point Voronoi diagram.
Moreover, we apply the new variation to calculate the maximum displacement of
one point $p$ under the condition that the displacements of points in $S$ are
restricted in 2D rigid motion.


Empirical Evaluation of Parallel Training Algorithms on Acoustic
  Modeling

  Deep learning models (DLMs) are state-of-the-art techniques in speech
recognition. However, training good DLMs can be time consuming especially for
production-size models and corpora. Although several parallel training
algorithms have been proposed to improve training efficiency, there is no clear
guidance on which one to choose for the task in hand due to lack of systematic
and fair comparison among them. In this paper we aim at filling this gap by
comparing four popular parallel training algorithms in speech recognition,
namely asynchronous stochastic gradient descent (ASGD), blockwise model-update
filtering (BMUF), bulk synchronous parallel (BSP) and elastic averaging
stochastic gradient descent (EASGD), on 1000-hour LibriSpeech corpora using
feed-forward deep neural networks (DNNs) and convolutional, long short-term
memory, DNNs (CLDNNs). Based on our experiments, we recommend using BMUF as the
top choice to train acoustic models since it is most stable, scales well with
number of GPUs, can achieve reproducible results, and in many cases even
outperforms single-GPU SGD. ASGD can be used as a substitute in some cases.


Extreme anisotropy and anomalous transport properties of heavily
  electron doped Lix(NH3)yFe2Se2 single crystals

  The missing hole packets near the Brillouin zone center render unique
electronic structures to the heavily electron doped FeSe-based superconductors
with Tc above 40 K. It challenges the existing scenario accounting for the
nature of superconductivity in the iron-based family. Yet, one hurdle that has
to be overcome is the materials complexity in the rather limited number of
compounds. Here we report the growth of heavily electron doped Li-NH3
intercalated FeSe single crystals that are free of such complexities and allow
access to the intrinsic superconducting properties. Our results show extremely
large electronic anisotropy in both normal and superconducting states.
Moreover, the anomalous transport properties appear in normal state, which are
believed related to the anisotropy of relaxation time and/or temperature
dependent electron carrier concentration. In view of the great chemical
flexibility of intercalants, our findings provide novel platform to
understanding of superconductivity origin of FeSe-related superconductors.


Electromagnetic Scattering Laws in Weyl Systems

  Wavelength determines the length scale of the cross section when
electromagnetic waves are scattered by an electrically small object. The cross
section diverges for resonant scattering, and diminishes for non-resonant
scattering, when wavelength approaches infinity. This scattering law explains
the color of the sky as well as the strength of a mobile phone signal. We show
that such wavelength scaling comes from free space's conical dispersion at zero
frequency. Emerging Weyl systems, offering similar dispersion at non-zero
frequencies, lead to new laws of electromagnetic scattering that allow cross
sections to be decoupled from the wavelength limit. Diverging and diminishing
cross sections can be realized at any target wavelength in a Weyl system,
providing unprecedented ability to tailor the strength of wave-matter
interactions for radio-frequency and optical applications.


