Parallel Level set algorithm with MPI and accelerated on GPU

  Level set method has been used to capture interface motion. Narrow band
algorithm is applied to localize the solving of level-set PDE on global domain
to a tube around interface. Due to the unknown evolving interface, narrow band
algorithm brings load balance problem for parallelizing computing. This work
presents a tool for evenly distributing work loads on CPUs. On the other hand,
numerically solving level-set PDE only needs simple operations but on large
grid points. This work also presents a GPU acceleration for solving level-set
PDE using finite difference method.


Intercalation driven porosity effects in coupled continuum models for
  the electrical, chemical, thermal and mechanical response of battery
  electrode materials

  We present a coupled continuum formulation for the electrostatic, chemical,
thermal and mechanical processes in battery materials. Our treatment applies on
the macroscopic scale, at which electrodes can be modelled as porous materials
made up of active particles held together by binders and perfused by the
electrolyte. Starting with the description common to the field, in terms of
reaction-transport partial differential equations for ions, variants of the
classical Poisson equation for electrostatics, and the heat equation, we add
mechanics to the problem. Our main contribution is to model the evolution of
porosity as a consequence of strains induced by intercalation, thermal
expansion and mechanical stresses. Recognizing the potential for large local
deformations, we have settled on the finite strain framework. We present a
detailed computational study of the influence of the dynamically evolving
porosity, upon ion distribution, electrostatic potential fields,
charge-discharge cycles and mechanical force generated in the cell.


A multi-physics battery model with particle scale resolution of porosity
  evolution driven by intercalation strain and electrolyte flow

  We present a coupled continuum formulation for the electrostatic, chemical,
thermal, mechanical and fluid physics in battery materials. Our treatment is at
the particle scale, at which the active particles held together by
carbon-binders, the porous separator, current collectors and the perfusing
electrolyte are explicitly modeled. Starting with the description common to the
field, in terms of reaction-transport partial differential equations for ions,
variants of the classical Poisson equation for electrostatics, and the heat
equation, we introduce solid-fluid interaction to the problem. Our main
contribution is to model the electrolyte as an incompressible fluid driven by
elastic, thermal and lithium intercalation strains in the active material. Our
treatment is in the finite strain setting, and uses the Arbitrary
Lagrangian-Eulerian (ALE) framework to account for mechanical coupling of the
solid and fluid. We present a detailed computational study of the influence of
solid-fluid interaction and magnitude of intercalation strain upon porosity
evolution, ion distribution and electrostatic potential fields in the cell.


Variational system identification of the partial differential equations
  governing pattern-forming physics: Inference under varying fidelity and noise

  We present a contribution to the field of system identification of partial
differential equations (PDEs), with emphasis on discerning between competing
mathematical models of pattern-forming physics. The motivation comes from
developmental biology, where pattern formation is central to the development of
any multicellular organism, and from materials physics, where phase transitions
similarly lead to microstructure. In both these fields there is a collection of
nonlinear, parabolic PDEs that, over suitable parameter intervals and regimes
of physics, can resolve the patterns or microstructures with comparable
fidelity. This observation frames the question of which PDE best describes the
data at hand. This question is particularly compelling because knowledge of the
governing PDE immediately delivers insights to the physics underlying the
systems. While building on recent work that uses stepwise regression, we
present advances that leverage the variational framework and statistical tests.
We also address the influences of variable fidelity and noise in the data.


A three dimensional field formulation, and isogeometric solutions to
  point and line defects using Toupin's theory of gradient elasticity at finite
  strains

  We present a field formulation for defects that draws from the classical
representation of the cores as force dipoles. We write these dipoles as
singular distributions. Exploiting the key insight that the variational setting
is the only appropriate one for the theory of distributions, we arrive at
universally applicable weak forms for defects in nonlinear elasticity.
Remarkably, the standard, Galerkin finite element method yields numerical
solutions for the elastic fields of defects that, when parameterized suitably,
match very well with classical, linearized elasticity solutions. The true
potential of our approach, however, lies in its easy extension to generate
solutions to elastic fields of defects in the regime of nonlinear elasticity,
and even more notably for Toupin's theory of gradient elasticity at finite
strains(Arch. Rat. Mech. Anal., 11, 385, 1962). In computing these solutions we
adopt recent numerical work on an isogeometric analytic framework that enabled
the first three-dimensional solutions to general boundary value problems of
Toupin's theory (Rudraraju et al. Comp. Meth. App. Mech. Engr., 278, 705,
2014). We first present exhaustive solutions to point defects, edge and screw
dislocations, and a study on the energetics of interacting dislocations. Then,
to demonstrate the generality and potential of our treatment, we apply it to
other complex dislocation configurations, including loops and low-angle grain
boundaries.


Analog Circuit Applications based on Ambipolar Graphene/MoTe2 Vertical
  Transistors

  The current integrated circuit (IC) technology based on conventional MOS-FET
(metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor) is approaching the limit of
miniaturization with increasing demand on energy. Several analog circuit
applications based on graphene FETs have been demonstrated with less components
comparing to the conventional technology. However, low on/off current ratio
caused by the semimetal nature of graphene has severely hindered its practical
applications. Here we report a graphene/MoTe2 van der Waals (vdW) vertical
transistor with V-shaped ambipolar field effect transfer characteristics to
overcome this challenge. Investigations on temperature dependence of transport
properties reveal that gate tunable asymmetric barriers of the devices are
account for the ambipolar behaviors. Furthermore, to demonstrate the analog
circuit applications of such vdW vertical transistors, we successfully realized
output polarity controllable (OPC) amplifier and frequency doubler. These
results enable vdW heterojunction based electronic devices to open up new
possibilities for wide perspective in telecommunication field.


Periodic elastic nanodomains in ultrathin tetrogonal-like BiFeO3 films

  We present a synchrotron grazing incidence x-ray diffraction analysis of the
domain structure and polar symmetry of highly strained BiFeO3 thin films grown
on LaAlO3 substrate. We revealed the existence of periodic elastic nanodomains
in the pure tetragonal-like BFO ultrathin films down to a thickness of 6 nm. A
unique shear strain accommodation mechanism is disclosed. We further
demonstrated that the periodicity of the nanodomains increases with film
thickness but deviates from the classical Kittel's square root law in ultrathin
thickness regime (6 - 30 nm). Temperature-dependent experiments also reveal the
disappearance of periodic modulation above 90C due to a MC-MA structural phase
transition.


Tunable hyperbolic metamaterial cavity towards few exciton strong
  coupling

  We theoretically investigate coupling interaction between molecule excitons
and whispering gallery modes (WGMs) that approaches the limit of single exciton
strong coupling in hyperbolic metamaterial (HMM) cavity, composed of a
dielectric core wrapped by several stacks of alternative layers of metal and
dielectric. We demonstrate that associated with the excitation of the
whispering gallery mode, the electric fields with resonance wavelengths that
are much larger than the cavity size can be highly localized within a
dielectric layer, leading to extremely small mode volumes. By using temporal
coupled mode theory to model the interaction in the proposed WGMs-exciton
system, we are able to demonstrate that the coupling between molecular excitons
and hyperbolic cavity WGMs can reach the strong coupling regime. Furthermore,
we also prove that changing both the thickness of inner core and outermost
layer can lead to invariant resonance frequency while the threshold number of
coupled excitons to fulfill the criteria for strong coupling remains ~ 4 in
various sets of tunable HMM cavities.


Optical Lattices with Higher-order Exceptional Points by Non-Hermitian
  Coupling

  Exceptional points (EPs) are degeneracies in open wave systems with
coalescence of at least two energy levels and their corresponding eigenstates.
In higher dimensions, more complex EP physics not found in two-state systems is
observed. We consider the emergence and interaction of multiple EPs in a four
coupled optical waveguides system by non-Hermitian coupling showing a unique EP
formation pattern in a phase diagram. In addition, absolute phase rigidities
are computed to show the mixing of the different states in definite parameter
regimes. Our results could be potentially important for developing further
understanding of EP physics in higher dimensions via generalized paradigm of
nonHermitian coupling for a new generation of parity-time (PT) devices.


Generation of optical frequency comb in a chi-2 sheet micro optical
  parametric oscillator via cavity phase matching

  Chi-3 micro resonators have enabled compact and portable frequency comb
generation, but require sophisticated dispersion control. Here we demonstrate
an alternative approach using a chi-2 sheet cavity, where the dispersion
requirement is relaxed by cavity phase matching. 21.2 THz broadband comb
generation is achieved with uniform line spacing of 133.0 GHz, despite a
relatively large dispersion of 275.4 fs^2/mm around 1064nm. With 22.6 % high
slope efficiency and 14.9 kW peak power handling, this chi-2 comb can be
further stabilized for navigation, telecommunication, astronomy, and
spectroscopy applications.


Experimental identification of critical condition for drastically
  enhancing thermoelectric power factor of two-dimensional layered materials

  Nano-structuring is an extremely promising path to high performance
thermoelectrics. Favorable improvements in thermal conductivity are attainable
in many material systems, and theoretical work points to large improvements in
electronic properties. However, realization of the electronic benefits in
practical materials has been elusive experimentally. A key challenge is that
experimental identification of the quantum confinement length, below which the
thermoelectric power factor is significantly enhanced, remains elusive due to
lack of simultaneous control of size and carrier density. Here we investigate
gate tunable and temperature-dependent thermoelectric transport in $\gamma$
phase indium selenide ($\gamma$ InSe, n type semiconductor) samples with
thickness varying from 7 to 29 nm. This allows us to properly map out dimension
and doping space. Combining theoretical and experimental studies, we reveal
that the sharper pre-edge of the conduction-band density of states arising from
quantum confinement gives rise to an enhancement of the Seebeck coefficient and
the power factor in the thinner InSe samples. Most importantly, we
experimentally identify the role of the competition between quantum confinement
length and thermal de Broglie wavelength in the enhancement of power factor.
Our results provide an important and general experimental guideline for
optimizing the power factor and improving the thermoelectric performance of
two-dimensional layered semiconductors.


Low-Symmetry Monoclinic Phases and Polarization Rotation Path Mediated
  By Epitaxial Strain in Multiferroic BiFeO3 Thin Films

  A morphotropic phase boundary driven by epitaxial strain has been observed in
a lead-free multiferroic BiFeO3 thin films and the strain-driven phase
transitions were widely reported to be iso-symmetric Cc-Cc ones by recent
works. In this paper, we suggest that the tetragonal-like BiFeO3 phase
identified in epitaxial films on (001) LaAlO3 single crystal substrates is
monoclinic MC. This MC phase is different from MA type monoclinic phase
reported in BiFeO3 films grown on low mismatch substrates, such as SrTiO3. This
is confirmed not only by synchrotron x-ray studies but also by piezoresponse
force microscopy measurements. The polarization vectors of the tetragonal-like
phase lie in the (100) plane, not the (110) plane as previously reported. A
phenomenological analysis was proposed to explain the formation of MC Phase.
Such a low symmetry MC phase, with its linkage to MA phase and the multiphase
coexistence open an avenue for large piezoelectric response in BiFeO3 films and
shed light on a complete understanding towards possible polarization rotation
paths and enhanced multiferroicity in BiFeO3 films mediated by epitaxial
strain. This work may also aid the understanding of developing new lead-free
strain-driven morphotropic phase boundary in other ferroic systems.


Optimal double resonant condition in metallic core-shell nanocavity for
  third harmonic generation

  As the rapid development of nonlinear optics, the enhancement of optical
third harmonic generation becomes a pop research realm in the fields of
physics, chemistry, biology, materials science, information science and other
fields. In this letter, theoretical analysis on double resonance situation in
metallic core-shell nanostructure is performed in order to optimize the
efficiency of third harmonic generation. As plenty of cavity modes ranging from
visible area to near infrared can be excited efficiently in core-shell
nanospheres, kinds of double resonant conditions can be formed by matching two
different multipolar cavity modes. Numerical simulations show that the third
harmonic generation (THG) intensity in the far field can be enhanced remarkably
when the THG signal couples well with the high order cavity mode. More
importantly, THG efficiency is optimum from the cavity on double resonant
conditions coupling two modes with the same order. The THG intensity differs up
to 3 magnitudes on this condition. Subsequent theoretical analysis indicates
that changing third-order nonlinear susceptibility of the metal shell while
keeping that of the core fixed has almost no effect on THG efficiency. This
finding about optimal double resonance has an appreciable effect on optimizing
THG in spherical cavity structures.


Gate-Tunable Negative Longitudinal Magnetoresistance in the Predicted
  Type-II Weyl Semimetal WTe2

  The progress in exploiting new electronic materials and devices has been a
major driving force in solid-state physics. As a new state of matter, a Weyl
semimetal (WSM), particularly a type-II WSM, hosts Weyl fermions as emergent
quasiparticles and may harbor novel electrical transport properties because of
the exotic Fermi surface. Nevertheless, such a type-II WSM material has not
been experimentally observed in nature. In this work, by performing systematic
magneto-transport studies on thin films of a predicted material candidate WTe2,
we observe notable angle-sensitive (between the electric and magnetic fields)
negative longitudinal magnetoresistance (MR), which can likely be attributed to
the chiral anomaly in WSM. This phenomenon also exhibits strong planar
orientation dependence with the absence of negative longitudinal MR along the
tungsten chains (a axis), which is consistent with the distinctive feature of a
type-II WSM. By applying a gate voltage, we demonstrate that the Fermi energy
can be tuned through the Weyl points via the electric field effect; this is the
first report of controlling the unique transport properties in situ in a WSM
system. Our results have important implications for investigating simulated
quantum field theory in solid-state systems and may open opportunities for
implementing new types of electronic applications, such as field-effect chiral
electronic devices.


Low-Temperature Eutectic Synthesis of PtTe2 with Weak Antilocalization
  and Controlled Layer Thinning

  Metallic transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) have exhibited various
exotic physical properties and hold the promise of novel optoelectronic and
topological devices applications. However, the synthesis of metallic TMDs is
based on gas-phase methods and requires high temperature condition. As an
alternative to the gas-phase synthetic approach, lower temperature eutectic
liquid-phase synthesis presents a very promising approach with the potential
for larger-scale and controllable growth of high-quality thin metallic TMDs
single crystals. Herein, we report the first realization of low-temperature
eutectic liquid-phase synthesis of type-II Dirac semimetal PtTe2 single
crystals with thickness ranging from 2 to 200 nm. The electrical measurement of
synthesized PtTe2 reveals a record-high conductivity of as high as 3.3*106 S/m
at room temperature. Besides, we experimentally identify the weak
antilocalization behavior in the type-II Dirac semimetal PtTe2 for the first
time. Furthermore, we develop a simple and general strategy to obtain
atomically-thin PtTe2 crystal by thinning as-synthesized bulk samples, which
can still retain highly crystalline and exhibits excellent electric
conductivity. Our results of controllable and scalable low-temperature eutectic
liquid-phase synthesis and layer-by-layer thinning of high-quality thin PtTe2
single crystals offer a simple and general approach for obtaining different
thickness metallic TMDs with high-melting point transition metal.


Controllable Defect Driven Symmetry Change and Domain Structure
  Evolution in BiFeO3 with Enhanced Tetragonality

  Defect engineering has been a powerful tool to enable the creation of exotic
phases and the discovery of intriguing phenomena in ferroelectric oxides.
However, accurate control the concentration of defects remains a big challenge.
In this work, ion implantation, that can provide controllable point defects,
allows us the ability to produce a controlled defect-driven true
super-tetragonal (T) phase with enhanced tetragonality in ferroelectric BiFeO3
thin films. This point defect engineering is found to drive the phase
transition from the as-grown mixed rhombohedral-like (R) and tetragonal-like
(MC) phase to true tetragonal (T) symmetry. By further increasing the injected
dose of He ion, we demonstrate an enhanced tetragonality super-tetragonal
(super-T) phase with the largest c/a ratio (~ 1.3) that has ever been
experimentally achieved in BiFeO3. A combination of morphology change and
domain evolution further confirm that the mixed R/MC phase structure transforms
to the single-domain-state true tetragonal phase. Moreover, the re-emergence of
R phase and in-plane stripe nanodomains after heat treatment reveal the memory
effect and reversible phase transition. Our findings demonstrate the control of
R-Mc-T-super T symmetry changes and the creation of true T phase BiFeO3 with
enhanced tetragonality through controllable defect engineering. This work also
provides a pathway to generate large tetragonality (or c/a ratio) that could be
extended to other ferroelectric material systems (such as PbTiO3, BaTiO3 and
HfO2) which may lead to strong polarization enhancement.


