MAEC : A Movement-Assisted Energy Conserving Method in Event Driven
  Wireless Sensor Networks

  Energy is one of the most important resources in wireless sensor networks.
Recently, the mobility of base station has been exploited to preserve the
energy. But in event driven networks, the mobility issue is quite different
from the continuous monitoring one because only a small portion of sensor node
has data to send at one time. The number of sensor node that forward traffic
should be minimized to prolong the network lifetime. In this paper, we propose
a movement-assisted energy conserving method which tries to reduce the amount
of forwarding sensor node by directing the base station to move close to the
hotspots. This method achieves good performance especially when applied to a
network with a set of cooperative mobile base station. Extensive simulation has
been done to verify the effectiveness of the propose schema.


A unified crowd simulation model revealing relationships among
  "Physiology-Psychology-Physics" factors

  We present a unified model for crowd simulation, CubeP, which comprehensively
considers physiological, psychological, and physical factors. Inspired by the
theory of "the devoted actor," the movements of each individual in our model
are determined by modeling the physical influence of physical strength
consumption and the emotion of panic. In particular, human physical strength
consumption is computed using a physics-based numerical method. Inspired by the
James-Lange theory, panic emotion is estimated by means of an enhanced
emotional contagion model that leverages the inherent relation between physical
strength consumption and panic emotion. To the best of our knowledge, our model
is the first method that integrates physiological, psychological, and physical
factors together and exploits the relationship between these factors. We
highlight the performance on different scenarios and compare the resulting
behavior with real-world video sequences. Our approach can reliably predict the
changes in physical strength consumption and panic emotion of individuals in an
emergency situation.


Crowd Behavior Simulation with Emotional Contagion in Unexpected
  Multi-hazard Situations

  In this paper we present a novel crowd simulation method by modeling the
generation and contagion of panic emotion under multi-hazard circumstances.
Specifically, we first classify hazards into different types (transient and
persistent, concurrent and non-concurrent, static and dynamic ) based on their
inherent characteristics. Then, we introduce the concept of perilous field for
each hazard and further transform the critical level of the field to its
invoked-panic emotion. After that, we propose an emotional contagion model to
simulate the evolving process of panic emotion caused by multiple hazards in
these situations. Finally, we introduce an Emotional Reciprocal Velocity
Obstacles (ERVO) model to simulate the crowd behaviors by augmenting the
traditional RVO model with emotional contagion, which combines the emotional
impact and local avoidance together for the first time. Our experimental
results show that this method can soundly generate realistic group behaviors as
well as panic emotion dynamics in a crowd in multi-hazard environments.


Neutrino Physics with JUNO

  The Jiangmen Underground Neutrino Observatory (JUNO), a 20 kton multi-purpose
underground liquid scintillator detector, was proposed with the determination
of the neutrino mass hierarchy as a primary physics goal. It is also capable of
observing neutrinos from terrestrial and extra-terrestrial sources, including
supernova burst neutrinos, diffuse supernova neutrino background, geoneutrinos,
atmospheric neutrinos, solar neutrinos, as well as exotic searches such as
nucleon decays, dark matter, sterile neutrinos, etc. We present the physics
motivations and the anticipated performance of the JUNO detector for various
proposed measurements. By detecting reactor antineutrinos from two power plants
at 53-km distance, JUNO will determine the neutrino mass hierarchy at a 3-4
sigma significance with six years of running. The measurement of antineutrino
spectrum will also lead to the precise determination of three out of the six
oscillation parameters to an accuracy of better than 1\%. Neutrino burst from a
typical core-collapse supernova at 10 kpc would lead to ~5000
inverse-beta-decay events and ~2000 all-flavor neutrino-proton elastic
scattering events in JUNO. Detection of DSNB would provide valuable information
on the cosmic star-formation rate and the average core-collapsed neutrino
energy spectrum. Geo-neutrinos can be detected in JUNO with a rate of ~400
events per year, significantly improving the statistics of existing geoneutrino
samples. The JUNO detector is sensitive to several exotic searches, e.g. proton
decay via the $p\to K^++\bar\nu$ decay channel. The JUNO detector will provide
a unique facility to address many outstanding crucial questions in particle and
astrophysics. It holds the great potential for further advancing our quest to
understanding the fundamental properties of neutrinos, one of the building
blocks of our Universe.


