Ensuring Predictable Contact Opportunity for Scalable Vehicular Internet
  Access On the Go

  With increasing popularity of media enabled hand-helds and their integration
with the in-vehicle entertainment systems, the need for high data-rate services
for mobile users on the go is evident. This ever-increasing demand of data is
constantly surpassing what cellular networks can economically support.
Large-scale Wireless LANs (WLANs) can provide such a service, but they are
expensive to deploy and maintain. Open WLAN access-points, on the other hand,
need no new deployments, but can offer only opportunistic services, lacking any
performance guarantees. In contrast, a carefully planned sparse deployment of
roadside WiFi provides an economically scalable infrastructure with quality of
service assurance to mobile users. In this paper, we present a new metric,
called Contact Opportunity, to closely model the quality of data service that a
mobile user might experience when driving through the system. We then present
efficient deployment algorithms for minimizing the cost for ensuring a required
level of contact opportunity. We further extend this concept and the deployment
techniques to a more intuitive metric -- the average throughput -- by taking
various dynamic elements into account. Simulations over a real road network and
experimental results show that our approach achieves significantly better cost
vs. throughput tradeoff in both the worst case and average case compared with
some commonly used deployment algorithms.


The Impact of Stealthy Attacks on Smart Grid Performance: Tradeoffs and
  Implications

  The smart grid is envisioned to significantly enhance the efficiency of
energy consumption, by utilizing two-way communication channels between
consumers and operators. For example, operators can opportunistically leverage
the delay tolerance of energy demands in order to balance the energy load over
time, and hence, reduce the total operational cost. This opportunity, however,
comes with security threats, as the grid becomes more vulnerable to
cyber-attacks. In this paper, we study the impact of such malicious
cyber-attacks on the energy efficiency of the grid in a simplified setup. More
precisely, we consider a simple model where the energy demands of the smart
grid consumers are intercepted and altered by an active attacker before they
arrive at the operator, who is equipped with limited intrusion detection
capabilities. We formulate the resulting optimization problems faced by the
operator and the attacker and propose several scheduling and attack strategies
for both parties. Interestingly, our results show that, as opposed to
facilitating cost reduction in the smart grid, increasing the delay tolerance
of the energy demands potentially allows the attacker to force increased costs
on the system. This highlights the need for carefully constructed and robust
intrusion detection mechanisms at the operator.


When to Reset Your Keys: Optimal Timing of Security Updates via Learning

  Cybersecurity is increasingly threatened by advanced and persistent attacks.
As these attacks are often designed to disable a system (or a critical
resource, e.g., a user account) repeatedly, it is crucial for the defender to
keep updating its security measures to strike a balance between the risk of
being compromised and the cost of security updates. Moreover, these decisions
often need to be made with limited and delayed feedback due to the stealthy
nature of advanced attacks. In addition to targeted attacks, such an optimal
timing policy under incomplete information has broad applications in
cybersecurity. Examples include key rotation, password change, application of
patches, and virtual machine refreshing. However, rigorous studies of optimal
timing are rare. Further, existing solutions typically rely on a pre-defined
attack model that is known to the defender, which is often not the case in
practice. In this work, we make an initial effort towards achieving optimal
timing of security updates in the face of unknown stealthy attacks. We consider
a variant of the influential FlipIt game model with asymmetric feedback and
unknown attack time distribution, which provides a general model to consecutive
security updates. The defender's problem is then modeled as a time associative
bandit problem with dependent arms. We derive upper confidence bound based
learning policies that achieve low regret compared with optimal periodic
defense strategies that can only be derived when attack time distributions are
known.


Maximizing System Throughput Using Cooperative Sensing in Multi-Channel
  Cognitive Radio Networks

  In Cognitive Radio Networks (CRNs), unlicensed users are allowed to access
the licensed spectrum when it is not currently being used by primary users
(PUs). In this paper, we study the throughput maximization problem for a
multi-channel CRN where each SU can only sense a limited number of channels. We
show that this problem is strongly NP-hard, and propose an approximation
algorithm with a factor at least $1/2\mu$ where $\mu \in [1,2]$ is a system
parameter reflecting the sensing capability of SUs across channels and their
sensing budgets. This performance guarantee is achieved by exploiting a nice
structural property of the objective function and constructing a particular
matching. Our numerical results demonstrate the advantage of our algorithm
compared with both a random and a greedy sensing assignment algorithm.


Maximizing System Throughput by Cooperative Sensing in Cognitive Radio
  Networks

  Cognitive Radio Networks allow unlicensed users to opportunistically access
the licensed spectrum without causing disruptive interference to the primary
users (PUs). One of the main challenges in CRNs is the ability to detect PU
transmissions. Recent works have suggested the use of secondary user (SU)
cooperation over individual sensing to improve sensing accuracy. In this paper,
we consider a CRN consisting of a single PU and multiple SUs to study the
problem of maximizing the total expected system throughput. We propose a
Bayesian decision rule based algorithm to solve the problem optimally with a
constant time complexity. To prioritize PU transmissions, we re-formulate the
throughput maximization problem by adding a constraint on the PU throughput.
The constrained optimization problem is shown to be NP-hard and solved via a
greedy algorithm with pseudo-polynomial time complexity that achieves strictly
greater than 1/2 of the optimal solution. We also investigate the case for
which a constraint is put on the sensing time overhead, which limits the number
of SUs that can participate in cooperative sensing. We reveal that the system
throughput is monotonic over the number of SUs chosen for sensing. We
illustrate the efficacy of the performance of our algorithms via a numerical
investigation.


Trust Exploitation and Attention Competition: A Game Theoretical Model

  The proliferation of Social Network Sites (SNSs) has greatly reformed the way
of information dissemination, but also provided a new venue for hosts with
impure motivations to disseminate malicious information. Social trust is the
basis for information dissemination in SNSs. Malicious hosts judiciously and
dynamically make the balance between maintaining its social trust and selfishly
maximizing its malicious gain over a long time-span. Studying the optimal
response strategies for each malicious host could assist to design the best
system maneuver so as to achieve the targeted level of overall malicious
activities. In this paper, we propose an interaction-based social trust model,
and formulate the maximization of long-term malicious gains of multiple
competing hosts as a non-cooperative differential game. Through rigorous
analysis, optimal response strategies are identified and the best system
maneuver mechanism is presented. Extensive numerical studies further verify the
analytical results.


FlowIntent: Detecting Privacy Leakage from User Intention to Network
  Traffic Mapping

  The exponential growth of mobile devices has raised concerns about sensitive
data leakage. In this paper, we make the first attempt to identify suspicious
location-related HTTP transmission flows from the user's perspective, by
answering the question: Is the transmission user-intended? In contrast to
previous network-level detection schemes that mainly rely on a given set of
suspicious hostnames, our approach can better adapt to the fast growth of app
market and the constantly evolving leakage patterns. On the other hand,
compared to existing system-level detection schemes built upon program taint
analysis, where all sensitive transmissions as treated as illegal, our approach
better meets the user needs and is easier to deploy. In particular, our
proof-of-concept implementation (FlowIntent) captures sensitive transmissions
missed by TaintDroid, the state-of-the-art dynamic taint analysis system on
Android platforms. Evaluation using 1002 location sharing instances collected
from more than 20,000 apps shows that our approach achieves about 91% accuracy
in detecting illegitimate location transmissions.


LeakSemantic: Identifying Abnormal Sensitive Network Transmissions in
  Mobile Applications

  Mobile applications (apps) often transmit sensitive data through network with
various intentions. Some transmissions are needed to fulfill the app's
functionalities. However, transmissions with malicious receivers may lead to
privacy leakage and tend to behave stealthily to evade detection. The problem
is twofold: how does one unveil sensitive transmissions in mobile apps, and
given a sensitive transmission, how does one determine if it is legitimate?
  In this paper, we propose LeakSemantic, a framework that can automatically
locate abnormal sensitive network transmissions from mobile apps. LeakSemantic
consists of a hybrid program analysis component and a machine learning
component. Our program analysis component combines static analysis and dynamic
analysis to precisely identify sensitive transmissions. Compared to existing
taint analysis approaches, LeakSemantic achieves better accuracy with fewer
false positives and is able to collect runtime data such as network traffic for
each transmission. Based on features derived from the runtime data, machine
learning classifiers are built to further differentiate between the legal and
illegal disclosures. Experiments show that LeakSemantic achieves 91% accuracy
on 2279 sensitive connections from 1404 apps.


Keeping Context In Mind: Automating Mobile App Access Control with User
  Interface Inspection

  Recent studies observe that app foreground is the most striking component
that influences the access control decisions in mobile platform, as users tend
to deny permission requests lacking visible evidence. However, none of the
existing permission models provides a systematic approach that can
automatically answer the question: Is the resource access indicated by app
foreground? In this work, we present the design, implementation, and evaluation
of COSMOS, a context-aware mediation system that bridges the semantic gap
between foreground interaction and background access, in order to protect
system integrity and user privacy. Specifically, COSMOS learns from a large set
of apps with similar functionalities and user interfaces to construct generic
models that detect the outliers at runtime. It can be further customized to
satisfy specific user privacy preference by continuously evolving with user
decisions. Experiments show that COSMOS achieves both high precision and high
recall in detecting malicious requests. We also demonstrate the effectiveness
of COSMOS in capturing specific user preferences using the decisions collected
from 24 users and illustrate that COSMOS can be easily deployed on smartphones
as a real-time guard with a very low performance overhead.


An Online Algorithm for Power-proportional Data Centers with Switching
  Cost

  Recent studies have shown that power-proportional data centers can save
energy cost by dynamically "right-sizing" the data centers based on real-time
workload. More servers are activated when the workload increases while some
servers can be put into the sleep mode during periods of low load. In this
paper, we revisit the dynamic right-sizing problem for heterogeneous data
centers with various operational cost and switching cost. We propose a new
online algorithm based on a regularization technique, which achieves a better
competitive ratio compared to the state-of-the-art greedy algorithm. We further
introduce a switching cost offset into the model and extend our algorithm to
this new setting. Simulations based on real workload and renewable energy
traces show that our algorithms outperform the greedy algorithm in both
settings.


Analysis of Thompson Sampling for Graphical Bandits Without the Graphs

  We study multi-armed bandit problems with graph feedback, in which the
decision maker is allowed to observe the neighboring actions of the chosen
action, in a setting where the graph may vary over time and is never fully
revealed to the decision maker. We show that when the feedback graphs are
undirected, the original Thompson Sampling achieves the optimal (within
logarithmic factors) regret $\tilde{O}\left(\sqrt{\beta_0(G)T}\right)$ over
time horizon $T$, where $\beta_0(G)$ is the average independence number of the
latent graphs. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first result showing
that the original Thompson Sampling is optimal for graphical bandits in the
undirected setting. A slightly weaker regret bound of Thompson Sampling in the
directed setting is also presented. To fill this gap, we propose a variant of
Thompson Sampling, that attains the optimal regret in the directed setting
within a logarithmic factor. Both algorithms can be implemented efficiently and
do not require the knowledge of the feedback graphs at any time.


On the Efficiency-vs-Security Tradeoff in the Smart Grid

  The smart grid is envisioned to significantly enhance the efficiency of
energy consumption, by utilizing two-way communication channels between
consumers and operators. For example, operators can opportunistically leverage
the delay tolerance of energy demands in order to balance the energy load over
time, and hence, reduce the total operational cost. This opportunity, however,
comes with security threats, as the grid becomes more vulnerable to
cyber-attacks. In this paper, we study the impact of such malicious
cyber-attacks on the energy efficiency of the grid in a simplified setup. More
precisely, we consider a simple model where the energy demands of the smart
grid consumers are intercepted and altered by an active attacker before they
arrive at the operator, who is equipped with limited intrusion detection
capabilities. We formulate the resulting optimization problems faced by the
operator and the attacker and propose several scheduling and attack strategies
for both parties. Interestingly, our results show that, as opposed to
facilitating cost reduction in the smart grid, increasing the delay tolerance
of the energy demands potentially allows the attacker to force increased costs
on the system. This highlights the need for carefully constructed and robust
intrusion detection mechanisms at the operator.


Maximizing Social Welfare in Operator-based Cognitive Radio Networks
  under Spectrum Uncertainty and Sensing Inaccuracy

  In Cognitive Radio Networks (CRNs), secondary users (SUs) are allowed to
opportunistically access the unused/under-utilized channels of primary users
(PUs). To utilize spectrum resources efficiently, an auction scheme is often
applied where an operator serves as an auctioneer and accepts spectrum requests
from SUs. Most existing works on spectrum auctions assume that the operator has
perfect knowledge of PU activities. In practice, however, it is more likely
that the operator only has statistical information of the PU traffic when it is
trading a spectrum hole, and it is acquiring more accurate information in real
time. In this paper, we distinguish PU channels that are under the control of
the operator, where accurate channel states are revealed in real-time, and
channels that the operator acquires from PUs out of its control, where a
sense-before-use paradigm has to be followed. Considering both spectrum
uncertainty and sensing inaccuracy, we study the social welfare maximization
problem for serving SUs with various levels of delay tolerance. We first model
the problem as a finite horizon Markov decision process when the operator knows
all spectrum requests in advance, and propose an optimal dynamic programming
based algorithm. We then investigate the case when spectrum requests are
submitted online, and propose a greedy algorithm that is 1/2-competitive for
homogeneous channels and is comparable to the offline algorithm for more
general settings. We further show that the online algorithm together with a
payment scheme achieves incentive compatibility for the SUs while guaranteeing
a non-negative revenue for the operator.


Provably Delay Efficient Data Retrieving in Storage Clouds

  One key requirement for storage clouds is to be able to retrieve data
quickly. Recent system measurements have shown that the data retrieving delay
in storage clouds is highly variable, which may result in a long latency tail.
One crucial idea to improve the delay performance is to retrieve multiple data
copies by using parallel downloading threads. However, how to optimally
schedule these downloading threads to minimize the data retrieving delay
remains to be an important open problem. In this paper, we develop
low-complexity thread scheduling policies for several important classes of data
downloading time distributions, and prove that these policies are either
delay-optimal or within a constant gap from the optimum delay performance.
These theoretical results hold for an arbitrary arrival process of read
requests that may contain finite or infinite read requests, and for
heterogeneous MDS storage codes that can support diverse storage redundancy and
reliability requirements for different data files. Our numerical results show
that the delay performance of the proposed policies is significantly better
than that of First-Come- First-Served (FCFS) policies considered in prior work.


Defending Against Stealthy Attacks on Multiple Nodes with Limited
  Resources: A Game-Theoretic Analysis

  Stealthy attacks are a major cyber-security threat. In practice, both
attackers and defenders have resource constraints that could limit their
capabilities. Hence, to develop robust defense strategies, a promising approach
is to utilize game theory to understand the fundamental trade-offs involved.
Previous works in this direction, however, mainly focus on the single-node case
without considering strict resource constraints. In this paper, a
game-theoretic model for protecting a system of multiple nodes against stealthy
attacks is proposed. We consider the practical setting where the frequencies of
both attack and defense are constrained by limited resources, and an asymmetric
feedback structure where the attacker can fully observe the states of nodes
while largely hiding its actions from the defender. We characterize the best
response strategies for both attacker and defender in the space of both
non-adaptive and adaptive strategies, and study the Nash Equilibria of the
game. We further study a sequential game where the defender first announces its
strategy and the attacker then responds accordingly, and design an algorithm
that finds a nearly optimal strategy for the defender to commit to.


Structure-Preserving Transformation: Generating Diverse and Transferable
  Adversarial Examples

  Adversarial examples are perturbed inputs designed to fool machine learning
models. Most recent works on adversarial examples for image classification
focus on directly modifying pixels with minor perturbations. A common
requirement in all these works is that the malicious perturbations should be
small enough (measured by an L_p norm for some p) so that they are
imperceptible to humans. However, small perturbations can be unnecessarily
restrictive and limit the diversity of adversarial examples generated. Further,
an L_p norm based distance metric ignores important structure patterns hidden
in images that are important to human perception. Consequently, even the minor
perturbation introduced in recent works often makes the adversarial examples
less natural to humans. More importantly, they often do not transfer well and
are therefore less effective when attacking black-box models especially for
those protected by a defense mechanism. In this paper, we propose a
structure-preserving transformation (SPT) for generating natural and diverse
adversarial examples with extremely high transferability. The key idea of our
approach is to allow perceptible deviation in adversarial examples while
keeping structure patterns that are central to a human classifier. Empirical
results on the MNIST and the fashion-MNIST datasets show that adversarial
examples generated by our approach can easily bypass strong adversarial
training. Further, they transfer well to other target models with no loss or
little loss of successful attack rate.


Concurrent Channel Probing and Data Transmission in Full-duplex MIMO
  Systems

  An essential step for achieving multiplexing gain in MIMO downlink systems is
to collect accurate channel state information (CSI) from the users.
Traditionally, CSIs have to be collected before any data can be transmitted.
Such a sequential scheme incurs a large feedback overhead, which substantially
limits the multiplexing gain especially in a network with a large number of
users. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to mitigate the feedback
overhead by leveraging the recently developed Full-duplex radios. Our approach
is based on the key observation that using Full-duplex radios, when the
base-station (BS) is collecting CSI of one user through the uplink channel, it
can use the downlink channel to simultaneously transmit data to other
(non-interfering) users for which CSIs are already known. By allowing
concurrent channel probing and data transmission, our scheme can potentially
achieve a higher throughput compared to traditional schemes using Half-duplex
radios. The new flexibility introduced by our scheme, however, also leads to
fundamental challenges in achieving throughout optimal scheduling. In this
paper, we make an initial effort to this important problem by considering a
simplified group interference model. We develop a throughput optimal scheduling
policy with complexity $O((N/I)^I)$, where $N$ is the number of users and $I$
is the number of user groups. To further reduce the complexity, we propose a
greedy policy with complexity $O(N\log N)$ that not only achieves at least 2/3
of the optimal throughput region, but also outperforms any feasible Half-duplex
solutions. We derive the throughput gain offered by Full-duplex under different
system parameters and show the advantage of our algorithms through numerical
studies.


